There has been a great deal of speculation over the last month that we would release a new pledge ship during today’s event. That speculation was correct: we’re proud to reveal that the 14th pledge ship is the Avenger, a police patrol ship which is commonly refurbished for bounty hunter use. Avengers will also serve as the initial training ship in Squadron 42’s single player campaign. Concept art of the Avenger is very early, but we think you’ll like how it’s shaping up.
Builder: Aegis Dynamics
Crew (max): 1 (2 in trainer variant)
Mass (empty): 32000 KG
Focus: Interdiction / Trainer
The Aegis Avenger has had a long and storied life as the standard patrol craft of the UEE Advocacy. Although aging, the Avenger features a sturdy, reliable hull and the capacity for larger-than-expected engine mounts. It avoids more specialized weapons in favor of a single, center-line gun mount which makes it something of a marksman’s ship. Police Avengers support enhanced scanner suites in the service of their patrol duties and the civilianized models retain a higher amount of computer memory than similarly sized spacecraft.
The UEE Navy’s air arm continues to use Avengers (designated N6G) as their standard trainer spacecraft. Any pilot serving today likely spent at least 300 hours qualifying In an Avenger before moving on to their combat assignment. (We will use the Avenger for the training missions in Squadron 42; think T-6 Texan.)
As more coreward Advocacy offices begin the transition to the police variant of the M50 interceptor and used Avengers have flooded the market. Criminal elements have begun to adopt these Avengers for their own needs, finding that their larger-than-average cargo hold and engines make an ideal bootlegging spacecraft.
Upgrade Capacity: 4
Cargo Capacity: 10 tonnes
Engine-
Modifiers: 2
Max. Class: Fusion
Thrusters: 1x TR5, 8x TR1
Hardpoints-
3 x Class 1: Equipped 2 x Behring Mk. I “Pin” Lasers (you have two wing mount low-grade lasers and then a single slot for a center-line heavy weapon; something much more powerful than other ships this size… but you use this option at the risk of overloading your engine.)
2 x Class 3: None equipped (limited to smaller missiles or drop tanks.)
