Have you ever wondered what kind of rig Chris Roberts uses at his home office in Santa Monica? Or what’s on his desk and hanging on his office walls. PC Gamer wondered and put together a quick little Q&A, complete with pictures, called “How I Game.” You’ll find it an enjoyable read.
What’s in your PC?
I tend to build my own PCs, just because I think it’s kind of fun, and it’s not very difficult nowadays. The one that’s on my desk that I built has an Intel 3930K, which I’ve overclocked. It’s sitting on an ASUS Rampage board and I run a GTX 690 in it. I’ve got 32 gigabytes of Corsair Dominator Platinum memory. It’s all cooled with a closed-loop water cooler: the Corsair H100i. My PSU is the Corsair AX860i. That pretty much covers it. My primary drive is a 512 gigabyte SSD. I think it’s an ADATA XPG 900, maybe? Then I have a three-terabyte 7200RPM Barracuda as my data drive.
I’ve got an Oculus Rift development kit sitting on my desk, so I have two monitors. One monitor is the ASUS PE278, it’s the 2560 by 1440 high-res IPS monitor. Then on my left, I’ve got the 1920 by 1080 Nvidia 3D monitor. I think my sound thing is whatever Corsair makes. I’ve got a pretty decent sound system. It’s not a bad rig. My home machine has also got an X79 hexacore in it, but it’s got the 3960X, which is overclocked again. They’re both overclocked about 4.4, 4.5. It’s also got an ASUS motherboard, but it’s the deluxe X79 one. I’ve got two 680s in SLI in my home machine. Again, a 512-megabyte primary SSD and a three-terabyte data drive.
For another fascinating look into the mind of Cloud Imperium Games’ CEO, you’ll want to read this piece from GameFront’s Mike Sharkey who interviewed Chris recently. And there were some interesting topics discussed including Naughty Dog’s The Last of Us, Oculus Rift, lessons learned in the film industry and of course, Star Citizen. You can read the full article here.
And thanks to all the press outlets who covered the $15 million milestone reached in Star Citizen crowd funding this week. There were all great pieces, but some notable quotes came from a few sites:
“Star Citizen raises an astronomical $15 million, a space oddity” – Eurogamer
“The poster child for PC Master Race gaming.” – Cinema Blend
“Will it reach $20 million? We are starting to think that this could go all the way.” – IncGamers
“The most profitable gaming crowdfunding campaign continues to swell its record-breaking coffers.” – VG 24/7
Other notable sites that covered the news included Gamespot, Blues News, MCV and PCGamesN.
