## Greetings Citizens,
You’ve picked up a lot of bombers… and used them to blow another stretch goal out of the water! This time I want to offer a special thank you on behalf of the Foundry 42 team. The latest stretch goal unlocked additional funding for the Squadron 42 single–player experience. In honor of that, we’ve put together a special Inside CIG behind-the-scenes video introducing the team making the game!
- Enhanced Mission Design for Squadron 42 – The team at Foundry 42 has big plans for Squadron 42, and we’re going to provide extra funding to make it a true spiritual successor to Wing Commander! Squadron 42 can go above and beyond anything you’ve seen before. From opening with an epic battle instead of a training patrol to missions that seamlessly combine boarding and space combat, we aim to put you right into the action! Additional funding will let the team realize this, with enhanced mission design and more resources and animations to enhance fidelity.
Last time we asked you to vote on a role for the next ship we build, and the resounding answer was that Citizens want to have a mining ship. We’re happy to oblige, but I’ll go ahead and warn you that mining in Star Citizen is going to be a lot more immersive than what you’ve seen before; you won’t be clicking on an asteroid until you’ve collected metal!
- RSI Orion – Roberts Space Industries’ goal has always been to make the stars available to individual Citizens. Now, with the RSI Orion mining platform, RSI is letting individuals take over a process formerly controlled by megacorporations. The Orion’s features include high-grade turret-mounted tractor beam arrays, durable exterior-accessible ‘saddlebags’ for mineral storage and a cabin designed by the team that brought you the Aurora and Constellation!
Now it’s time for you to pick the $32 million stretch goal ship. We’ve removed the winner and the lowest-performing option from the last poll. What will it be now? A massive cargo hauler, a speedy information runner, a dedicated salvage ship? The choice is in your hands!
Remember that each stretch goal represents a broad array of improvements to Star Citizen: more staff, better equipment, more variety in the finished universe. The ships you choose are just a sample of what each million dollars lets us add to the game!
— Chris Roberts
