## The Origin 890 Jump is HERE!
The 890 Jump is the crown jewel in Origin's spacecraft line. A fully-equipped interstellar yacht, the 890 Jump isn't just a beautiful silhouette: it's ready for dozens of potential roles, from high-security trading to organization leadership to command and control.
The Origin 890 Jump is a rare sight, but a lasting one. Its very presence signifies power: used as a personnel transport, the 890 Jump is the prized possession of CEOs, politicians, holo stars and the like. Whether they’re traveling from Earth to Terra or exploring uncharted stars, the 890 leads the way in everything it does.
Need more guns? Heavier shields? More powerful thrusters? The 890 Jump is also fully customizeable, to the same degree as any ship in Origin’s lineup! The company has built their most complex starship to date… now it’s up to her captain to choose what happens next!
Outside
Vanduul inbound? Pirate Cutlasses on an attack vector? Trouble with local customs? It’s their funeral. The 890 Jump isn’t just a beautiful silhouette; it comes factory-equipped with a lethal array of defensive and offensive weaponry powerful enough to take on anything the enemy can bring to bear.
Boarders will think twice when finding themselves facing off against five turrets, two missile launchers and a pair of point defense batteries. And every weapon and component is a top-of-the-line design from a selection of the galaxy’s best manufacturers. Every approach is covered, and the central bridge can transition the ship from peaceful cruiser to raining hell in mere seconds.
Inside
The 890 Jump is the height of luxury, featuring an observation lounge, a state room, guest quarters, a boat bay, a large cargo hold and more. It’s the perfect platform for running a corporation, transporting passengers in unparalleled comfort or simply sharing the galaxy with your friends!
The 890’s interiors are designed for comfort and ease of use. The ship features two optional control centers, a standard bridge and a battle bridge, either one of which allows a single pilot to control shipboard operations.
The 85X Runabout Two-seater
Finally, every 890 Jump comes with a two-seat ORIGIN 85X runabout, a personal transport par excellence. The 85X isn’t a simple snub fighter like those included on competitor’s larger spacecraft: it’s a top-of-the-line ship in its own right, fully capable of going the few places the 890 cannot.
To learn more about the 890 Jump, down to individual deck plans, see the full sales brochure.
The 890 Jump is being sold in limited numbers starting during tonight’s CitizenCon broadcast. The first allotment of 890 ships will be made available shortly after 7 PM PDT, with additional releases every five hours (midnight, 5 am and 10 am Pacific.)
Remember: we are offering this pledge ship to help fund Star Citizen’s development. All of these ships will be available for in-game credits in the final universe, and they are not required to start the game. Additionally, all decorative ‘flare’ items will also be available to acquire in the finished game world. The goal is to make additional ships available that give players a different experience rather than a particular advantage when the persistent universe launches.
