## START TRANSMISSION
Step on up, operators, you’re tuned into OP.NET. My name’s Conva Maynard and I’ll be relaying all the latest in news, advice and tech for the working security professional. As always, I am obligated to mention that OP.NET is not affiliated with the Mercenary Guild or any of their subsidiary dispatches. That’s right, we are totally independent, giving you the straight line, which, if you don’t believe us, will be apparent pretty soon.
First though, let’s talk Job Board, OP.NET’s list of current employment opportunities. Understand that our fine team does their best to vet these leads, but make sure you do your due diligence before performing any work.
First up, got a tip on a prot-run. An inforunner needs an escort through lawless space. Applicants will need to provide ship specs with their bid. Anyone interested should drop a comm to Grace Hartsfield.
Next, the Governors Council of Vega II has been putting out an open call for mercs in support roles for the local militia and law enforcement. If I was a speculating man, I would venture to say that the gig’s all about going that extra mile to make the planet more appealing since they’re campaigning for Imperial recognition. I spent some shore leave on Vega II, so as far as a place to work, you could do a lot worse.
We’ll load you up with some more leads a little later in the show, but in the meantime, I’d like to bring out my guest to discuss a topic that’s been dominating the conversations of a whole lotta mercs.
I’ll assume that if you’re locked in on this show, you’re familiar with the event. If you aren’t, last week, a team of contract operators for Storm Securities was working as a security detail for a cargo hauler. The specific hauler’s name hasn’t been released yet, but, what has been made public is that while in transit, the client and security detail were approached and threatened by a group of ships that were subsequently linked to the Otoni Syndicate.
The running theory is that they were attempting to kidnap the VIP client.
The mercs from Storm engaged and destroyed every single enemy ship. Sounds pretty open and shut, right? Nope.
Turns out one of the Otoni pilots was an undercover Advocacy agent. Storm Securities’ legal team claims that not only did the undercover agent fail to identify themselves and were an active participant in the attempted abduction. The Advocacy has fired back with claims that the agent not only identified themselves, but had even surrendered before the Storm Securities operatives opened fire.
Now there’s a whole bunch of complicated questions wrapped up in here. To help sift through the madness, I’d like to bring out Amir Gelar, a Public Solicitor with Seligmann & Cross. Amir, thank you for joining us.
Amir Gelar: Hello Mr. Maynard and hello to everyone out there.
We all know that a job can turn deadly in a matter of seconds, and a good operator must learn to assess a situation quickly and correctly or there could be long-standing ramifications.
Amir Gelar: Absolutely.
So let’s start soft, do you think Storm Securities’ operatives should be liable for this Advocacy agent’s death?
Amir Gelar: It always boils down to evidence and intent. The Advocacy seems very resolute in the knowledge that their agent was killed in cold blood after they had identified themselves as law enforcement. If that is indeed the case, then yes, I think they should be liable.
So what does that mean for the independent contractor in the field? Someone who doesn’t have the network of solicitors on retainer that Storm does.
Amir Gelar: A private security contract does not elevate you above the law. If your client orders you to perform an illegal activity, you can be charged if you execute that order.
But in a situation like this, what if the Otoni ships had a larger vessel and one of the crew was an undercover agent? By defending yourself, would you open yourself up to prosecution?
Amir Gelar: That’s a good question. Law students still write dissertations about capital ship law. For example, in the commission of a crime, does the entire crew share culpability? Or simply the captain? How does that work in organizations that don’t follow a strict chain of command? It’s fascinating stuff.
Definitely and we’ll dig a little deeper into it when we come back with Amir Gelar. You are tapped into OP.NET.
