With the recent release of our Imagine trailer, we thought it’d be nice to take a look at some of the trailers our community have created. Below we’ve listed a few of the ones that stood out to us. So let’s get started!
Starting things off, with a quote from Carl Sagan no less, World Beyond has created a fantastic trailer titled Homecoming: Part One. Dubbed with World Beyond’s own poetry, this trailer packs a powerful punch of how amazing and grand space can be. We all really enjoyed this one, and was even suggested by multiple people within the community!
Next up, Egnimat3k combines some amazing Star Citizen imagery alongside “Warriors” by Imagine Dragons to create an energetic trailer. Just watching it gets us pumped to go out there and duke it out and prove we’re the best. This is a great combination of visuals and audio and worth the watch.
Star Citizen Polska decided to take it upon themselves to create their own trailer and we love it. The editing is tight and every beat of the music makes its own statement about why Star Citizen is amazing. Excellent job, and if you are a fellow polish speaker you should check out their site!
Following the trend of making each beat matter, Hertz Studios goes above and beyond with their trailer. An inspirational music track and action packed visuals are enough to get anybody excited to enter into battle. You should definitely block out 5 minutes and check this one out!
Last, but certainly not least, is The Fighter Pilot. Released earlier today, this collaboration between multiple community members (which you can read about here) and tells the story of a career fighter pilot in the UEE Navy. This trailer is astounding and you should stop everything to watch it now.
Thanks to everybody who has turned their passion into a trailer for Star Citizen. None of this would be possible without all of you and we love watching you share your love for the game. If you have a suggestion for a future fan spotlight, let us know in our Fan Spotlight thread, and if you know a trailer that we missed, let us know below! Thanks and we’ll see you next week!
