## Greetings Citizens,
It should come as no surprise that I love a good interstellar dogfight… and EVERSPACE from ROCKFISH games looks to deliver exactly that! The team behind Galaxy on Fire (a genuinely good space combat game for iOS) is back to craft a beautiful space shooter for the PC… and what they’ve released so far has been very impressive! Looking at their Kickstarter presentation, the environmental effects are top-notch (check out the asteroid slicing) and the game itself looks like a whole lot of fun. The project has just hit its Kickstarter goal with nine days remaining and is getting ready to move on to stretch goals… so I thought it would be good to share with the Star Citizen community that might not have seen it yet.
Now, I know what you’re thinking: aren’t these guys our competition? Like fighter pilots that argue over who’s flying the hottest aircraft, the conversation between space gamers has always inevitably turned to who supports the best game, with plenty of ribbing (good natured and otherwise) in every direction. Whether it was Wing Commander versus X-Wing in the 1990s or Star Citizen compared to Elite: Dangerous today, we all like a good argument! But just like pilots, at the end of the day we aren’t truly competitors… we’re all part of a band of brothers and the success of any great project buoys us all. As I’ve said since the beginning: Star Citizen isn’t truly a success unless it helps bring back high quality PC games in general… and space games in particular!
So, with that in mind I encourage you to check out EVERSPACE. The team at ROCKFISH is doing some outstanding work, and I think anyone who backed Star Citizen would be interested in learning more! The game is more action-focused than ours, and should allow for some great, fast-paced gameplay that’ll stand alongside Star Citizen, No Man’s Sky, Elite and all the others. You can view their crowdfunding trailer below, check out their Kickstarter page here, or learn more about the project at everspace-game.com.
— Chris Roberts
