Gameplay Streaming from the Showfloor
Beginning on Wednesday, August 17th we’ll be streaming five days of live Star Citizen game play directly from the our Show Booth in Hall 9 on the Gamescom floor. Hosted by CIG and members of the Star Citizen Twitch Community, tune in to see the latest Star Citizen game play, interviews with developers and fans alike, and have your chance to win digital goods like hangar flair, game packages, and spaceships.
Watch live at twitch.tvthrough our own custom Gamescom event page on the following days and times:
Fourth Annual Gamescom Presentation and Party
Join us on Friday, August 19th as we celebrate Star Citizen at Gamescom with you, our amazing community. Hosted by Chris Roberts, watch as we showcase what we’ve been working on since last year’s event, and take a look ahead at the Procedural Planets system slated to come online in Star Citizen Alpha 2.7. Of course, that’s not all you can expect from our Gamescom Presentation, but you’ll have to tune in on August 19th to find out more!
For those who have purchased tickets to the live event, you can
Print your ticket
For everyone else, we invite you to join the presentation as it’s broadcast LIVE on twitch.tv through our custom page at 9pm CEST / 12pm PDT / 7pm UTC
Gamescom Trophies for Sale
Event Trophies to decorate your hangar are a staple of our Gamescom event, and this year is no exception. The GAMESCOM 2946 TROPHY is available for all Citizens to purchase, showing the universe your support for Star Citizen. (Please note: backers who purchased a ticket to the Friday night event have received one copy of the trophy on their accounts.) The GAMESCOM 2946 SUBSCRIBER TROPHY is a colored variant that will automatically be awarded to all Subscribers. Of course, as with all Subscriber Flair extras can be purchased and gifted to anyone you choose. Trophy will display in Star Citizen Alpha 2.5.
Public Fan Events
Are you going to be in town during Gamescom week? Besides visiting us on the showfloor and attending our presentation and party, we’re having several informal gatherings open to the Star Citizen community.
Wednesday August 17th
Join us at the Brauhaus Ohne Namen from 8pm to 10pm for drinks and a chance to chat with CIG staff
Get Details
Thursday August 18th
The party continues as we move to the Deutzer Brauhaus from 8pm to 10pm CEST
Get Details
Saturday August 20th
After the Fourth-Annual Gamescom Presentation and Party, we’re going to the Hyatt Beer Garden at 1pm.
Get Details
