Let’s Communicate
Don’t let the utilitarian lines or the vertical silhouette fool you. The Herald is one half pure speed and one half cutting edge high tech computer system, which makes it Drake’s inaugural information runner.
While the Herald looks more like an angry beetle than a sleek racing ship, it’s very, very fast. In fact, Drake has designed a spacecraft that’s almost more engine than ship. Pilots report that running a Herald at full speed is a little like strapping yourself to a thruster. Unlike traditional racers, the Herald values speed over maneuverability because it’s designed to intercept, protect and transport sensitive information as effectively as possible.
While producing a high-tech courier ship might seem unusual for Drake, rest assured the Herald has a place alongside the Caterpillar, Cutlass, Buccaneer and Dragonfly. Although intended for use strictly as a fast data runner ship, the extensive computer systems aboard the Herald are often adapted for darker purposes.
About the Herald
The Drake Herald joins an elite group of fast ships which includes the M50, 350R and Mustang Gamma. QA reports that navigating the Murray Cup map in Arena Commander using the Herald is a true challenge … are you pilot enough?
The Drake Herald will be introduced as flight ready in Star Citizen’s next patch, Alpha 2.6. The Herald will be on sale for one week following the release of patch 2.6 allowing potential couriers to pick up this fast starship. Additional functionality relating to the Herald, including systems related to data and hacking, will be introduced in future Persistent Universe patches.
A booklet from FTL Courier Services, one of the companies proudly using the Herald in the ‘verse, is available below for your enjoyment. Whether you’re interested in picking up a Herald or not, we hope you’ll enjoy this deeper look at the Star Citizen world.
Visit the Herald
## Disclaimer
Remember: we are offering this pledge ship to help fund Star Citizen’s development. The funding generated by sales such as this is what allows us to include deeper, non-combat oriented features in the Star Citizen world. All ships will be available for in-game credits in the final universe, and they are not required to start the game.
The Herald will be available ‘flight ready’ when Star Citizen Alpha 2.6 launches. Additional modules, variants and/or upgrades will be available in the future.
