The Nox is being offered for the first time as a limited concept sale. This means that the ship design meets our specifications, but it is not yet ready to display in your Hangar or to fight in Star Citizen. The sale includes Lifetime Insurance on the ship hull and a pair of decorative items for your Hangar. A future patch will add a Nox poster and then once the in-game model is finished you will also be given an in-game Nox mini ship model! In the future, the ship price will increase and the offer will not include Life Time Insurance or these extras.
If you’d like to add one to your fleet, they’re available in the pledge store until July 3rd, 2017. You can also view a detail of the Nox in the Holo Viewer in the Tech Overview of the ship page, and be sure to enjoy the Aopoa Nox brochure.
As with every Concept Sale, we will also be doing a Q&A post. There will be a forum thread on Spectrum to take your questions. Make sure to vote for the questions you most want to see answered and we will be posting the dev’s responses next week. Look for the Comm-Link Schedule next week to find out when that post will go up!
What is a War Bond ship?
War Bond ships and packages are a way to directly support Star Citizen’s continued development. Ships labeled War Bond are available at a discount, which is possible because they can not be purchased with store credit from melted items. Standard versions of these ships without the War Bond discount are typically offered for purchase using store credits at the same time a concept sale page goes live.
## Disclaimer
Remember: we are offering this pledge ship to help fund Star Citizen’s development. The funding generated by sales such as this is what allows us to include deeper, non-combat oriented features in the Star Citizen world. All ships will be available for in-game credits in the final universe, and they are not required to start the game. The goal is to make additional ships available that give players a different experience rather than a particular advantage when the final persistent universe launches.
