Gameplay Streaming from the Showfloor
Beginning on Wednesday, August 23rd we’ll continue the tradition we started last year by streaming four days of live Star Citizen gameplay and interviews directly from the our booth at A-051 in Hall 9 on the Gamescom showfloor. Hosted by CIG and members of the Star Citizen Twitch Community, tune in to see the latest Star Citizen game play, interviews with developers and fans alike, and a special post-presentation broadcast on Saturday.
You can watch the broadcasts live on Twitch on the following days and times:
Fifth Annual Gamescom Presentation and Party
We’re excited to be back at Gloria Theater on 9pm Friday, August 25th for another great show. Hosted by Chris Roberts, showcasing some of what we’ve been working on this year, and delivering some never-seen-before gameplay! If you’re not there in person you can watch live on Twitch, or join one of the 20+ Bar Citizens around the world and watch with the community.
For those who have purchased tickets to the live event, you can
Print your ticket
For everyone else, we invite you to join the presentation as it’s broadcast LIVE on Twitch and YouTube at 9pm CEST / 12pm PDT / 7pm UTC
Meetups in Cologne during Gamescom Week
We look forward to taking every opportunity we can to meet with the community during Gamescom week. We had so much fun last year, we’re planning a similar schedule!
Join your fellow Star Citizens and members of the CIG development staff at the following locations:
Wednesday, August 23rd
Join us at the Brauhaus Ohne Namen from 8pm to 10pm for drinks and a chance to chat with CIG staff.
Get Details
Thursday, August 24th
A place so nice we have to visit twice: We’re back at the Brauhaus Ohne Namen from 8pm to 10pm.
Get Details
Then on Saturday 26th of August we will return to the Hyatt Beer Garden in the afternoon from 2pm onwards.
Saturday, August 26th
After the Fifth-Annual Gamescom Presentation and Party, we’re going to the Hyatt Beer Garden at 2pm.
Get Details
Please feel free to join us there, share a drink and a story, and get to know the community.
