Here’s to you and new discoveries. Here’s to fate ever-smiling upon you. And here’s to the opportunity to commemorate the occasion with friends, frivolity, and frothy beverages.
Keep the party going with the ALL NEW Cyclone MT and show us how you tempt fate in a revelrous video contest. Stella Fortuna is the day to push your luck and find your pot of gold among the stars.
accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture
Make luck your co-pilot with the Cyclone MT from Tumbril, outfitted with a deadly gun and missile-turret combo.
Following the success of the initial release of the Cyclone, Tumbril has taken your feedback and expanded its popular line of tactical vehicles with the all-new Cyclone MT, drivable in Star Citizen Alpha 3.13. Find out more about the increased combat options this vehicle brings to the field in our Tumbril Cyclone MT Q&A.
Introducing the ALL NEW Cyclone MT
Tumbril Cyclone MT
Following the success of the initial release of the Cyclone, Tumbril has taken your feedback and expanded their popular line of tactical vehicles with the all new Cyclone MT. Outfitted with a combination gun and missile turret, this module offers increased combat options in the field.
Due to release in Star Citizen Alpha 3.13.
Stella Fortuna is a Human cultural celebration associated with good fortune and success in new ventures. It was first established as a commemoration of the successful colonization of Mars (Sol IV). Feasting, fireworks, festivals, and other forms of mass celebration are hallmarks of the holiday, along with the colors gold and green. It is celebrated each year on March 15 throughout the United Empire of Earth (UEE).
Stella Fortuna has evolved from a holiday commemorating the early Mars colony to one that celebrates good fortune, boldness, tempting fate, and embarking on new business ventures. This was caused by a number of factors, but the against-all-odds success of the Mars colony combined with the long-term success of early settlers were two major influences. By the time the holiday’s final date was selected, people preparing for interplanetary trips were already asking the stars for their blessing. It became a tradition in the late 2200s for explorers to toast the stars before embarking on searches for jump points, or for people launching new business ventures to begin them on March 15.
The largest celebrations still occur on Mars. Most businesses close for the holiday and the day after. The festival officially kicks off with a parade featuring elaborately decorated floats in the form of spaceships or stars. Celebrants clad in colorful, light-up costumes throw candy, raffle tickets, or other small prizes from atop the floats into the crowd. Carnivals filled with rides and games run throughout the day and night. Intoxicated crowds will spontaneously burst into traditional songs such as “Aim for the Stars but Strike from Mars” and “Illuminate the Way.” Marriage proposals are as common as new business ventures; the green and gold firework display that concludes the festival is a favorite time to seal the deal on business and romantic partnerships alike.
Learn more about Stella Fortuna’s origin on the GALACTAPEDIA.
## Fortune Favors the Bold
We all know that the 'verse is full of risks and dangers that must be overcome with boldness and by tempting fate, and this is what this year's Stella Fortuna contest is all about.
Create a video showing how Fortuna smiles on you in a supposedly hopeless battle against a powerful opponent. Emerge victoriously and laugh in the face of fear.
Push your luck and you might earn yourself with one of our fine rewards. Find out more about the contest on Spectrum.
