Legacy of Tenacity
Peacekeeper. Pathfinder. Predator.
Beyond its legendary reputation for redefining the ground game in the Second Tevarin War, the Nova battle tank has consistently proven to be a versatile beast. Reimagined to bring its iconic edge to terrestrial conflicts in the modern age, the Nova is capable of high performance in a wide variety of disparate applications. By complementing the original design’s all-weather, all-terrain focus with new systems, tech, and refinements, our engineers have created a Nova that not only lives up to the original’s name but pushes it to the next level.
accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture
Slayer Long-Range Ballistic Cannon
Size 5 Slayer cannon reimagined and fine-tuned for the modern era with improved pivot speed and heat resistance.
Remote Turret
Dual-mounted Size 2 repeaters designed for anti-infantry applications and capable of tracking high-speed targets with pinpoint control.
Assess battlefields and call the shots quickly and accurately, or take control of the weapons systems for solo operation.
Manage secondary weapons, power allocation, navigation systems, and pathfinding; take over main controls and/or weapons should the need arise.
Track System
The iconic design provides unparalleled weight distribution, mechanical efficiency, and environmental adaptability.
2021-05-17 14:18:24
Missile Launcher
Two missile racks, each armed with 12 Size 2 anti-aircraft missiles.
Combat incoming missile fire with a custom countermeasure rig, capable of even chaff/flare dispersal.
The dedicated gunner’s station puts one crew member in total control of the weapons systems, with full 360-degree rotation of the Slayer cannon.
Expansive Cabin
The roomy, climate-controlled interior cabin allows the crew to move freely and easily access tank components.
2021-05-17 14:18:15
Main Weapon
S5 'Slayer' Ballistic Canon
Get Your Nova
Get It Now
This sale has ended. This vehicle may become available in future events, such as Invictus Launch Week and the Intergalactic Aerospace Expo. Please browse our other ships on the pledge store.
Standalone Tanks
Dominate the Land,
Defend the Skies
Transport your Nova to the front lines
in the mighty Crusader Hercules
