What is Jumptown?
In 2019, the Star Citizen community discovered a lucrative drug lab on the surface of Crusader’s moon Yela. What followed was completely unplanned, and surprised everyone - including our development team.
Tens of thousands of players flocked to the outpost, with split motives in mind – eager outlaws and less-than-scrupulous organizations rushed to acquire and sell this newfound illicit treasure trove at any cost, while more lawful groups chose to lock down the station in a bid to prevent further criminal activity.
This clash resulted in a perpetual tug-of-war between far-flung factions and home-grown heroes over control of the outpost. You never knew what you’d find when approaching Jumptown, which only the most dedicated could locate, since it wasn’t easily pin-pointed on standard-issue maps.
These events were so profound, they ended up becoming official canon in Star Citizen’s lore – a prime example of player actions shaping the future of the ‘verse forever.
For a detailed journey through the events of the original Jumptown wars, check out the community-produced documentary by TheAstroPub below.
Originally released in Star Citizen Alpha 3.16, this dynamic event is inspired by the original Jumptown wars. Challenging you to weigh risk against reward like never before, you’ll battle it out in a familiar, yet entirely new experience.
Read on for more details about what to expect, and be sure to outfit your force for the impending mayhem.
accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture
What Side of the Law Are You On?
This Dynamic Event can be undertaken by either lawful or unlawful players. The mission itself plays out the same regardless of which path you take, with a few key differences.
To take the lawful path, be sure you have a CrimeStat of zero and then accept the mission from Crusader Security. The drug boxes you collect at the mission site will need to be taken to the closest LEO port. For example, if the mission is taking place at Jumptown, you would take your haul to Port Olisar.
On the lawful path, if you successfully delivery at least one run of contraband back to the LEO port, you will receive an aUEC bonus on top of the price of the drugs you deliver.
To take the unlawful path, you must have a CrimeStat of any level and accept the mission from Ruto. To do this you will need to have a non-negative affinity with the mission giver. Ruto knows how valuable this intel is, so he also asks a buy-in for the mission.
On this path, all contraband must be taken to Grim HEX to be sold off, regardless of where the mission is taking place. The unlawful path will provide a bonus to the price of each successfully delivered drug box.
## Jumptown 2.0 Schedule - 3.17.2
All events listed below begin at midnight UTC, or 5pm Pacific the previous day. For the full dynamic event schedule in 3.17.2, head over to the Spectrum announcement for all the details.
- August 1
- August 3
- August 5
- August 7
- August 9
