CUTLASS STEEL
Get YOURS now
CUTLASS STEEL
BACK TO RSI
It’s a Jungle Out There.
Like it or not, we live in a dog-eat-dog universe. Away from the so-called protection of the UEE, the law of the jungle prevails – whoever has the most guns and most muscle makes the rules. Drake has your back in both departments with the Cutlass Steel.
Equal parts daunting dropship and menacing gunship, the newest member of Drake’s flagship family brings the heat and then some.
accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture
KEY FEATURES
A fearsome battlefield hybrid, the Cutlass Steel is built to deliver devastating air and ground support. With 13 guns, ample missiles, and the ability to carry over 20 personnel into the hottest combat zones, the Steel can single-handedly turn the tide of any conflict.
The Steel strips the traditional Cutlass interior to make room for 18 jump seats and personal weapon lockers, ensuring your squad is ready to hit the ground running, no matter the mission or conditions in the air.
Get in the Fight
The Steel is just as effective a gunship as it is a dropship, with five modified GT-210 Yellowjacket anti-personnel guns mounted to its doors. These deadly ballistic Gatlings from Gallenson Tactical Systems sport an impressive rate of fire, capable of shredding targets on the ground and clearing problematic landing zones.
A perennial favorite of independent mercenary outfits and paramilitary groups across the galaxy, the Gallenson GT series’ extreme rate of fire and high-velocity rounds make them a real threat against fighters of all classes. Manually operated, the Steel’s door guns are absolute hell for any foolhardy pilots trying to engage it in a dogfight.
Death from Above
Is the Cutlass the most infamous spacecraft chassis to grace the spacelanes of the empire and beyond? Maybe, but Drake isn’t interested in myth and legend. The Cutlass’ reputation has been earned the hard way, empowering the people of the ‘verse every single day.
The Cutlass series has been putting power back into the capable hands of the people since 2845. Now, with the Cutlass Steel, Drake cranks its flagship chassis up a notch, reimagining it as a formidable hybrid gunship/dropship.
Uncut Infamy
Some images show Cutlass Cypress, Saurian, and Hawthorn paints. Each available separately.
CUTLASS STEEL
GET THE DROP ON 'EM
THIS SALE HAS ENDED.
This vehicle may become available in future events, such as Invictus Launch Week and the Intergalactic Aerospace Expo. Please browse our other ships on the pledge store.
STANDALONE SHIP
Warbond Standalone pledges come with Lifetime Insurance.
SHIP PACKS
Warbond Ship Pack pledges come with Lifetime Insurance.
Customize your new Cutlass Steel with any of these paints.
