Star Citizen vs. EVE Online: Battle of the Bricks
Last year, we featured a detailed community-created LEGO® model of the Drake Vulture on social media. It didn't take long for EVE Online to playfully poke fun, bringing their Venture to the LEGO® party. At that moment, we knew we needed to settle this friendly rivalry once and for all. We decided to take it to the next level and challenge EVE to a build-off of galactic proportion… and they accepted.
Thus, the Battle of the Bricks was born, a competition to find the finest brick builders from Stanton all the way to New Eden. We're teaming up with EVE Online for the ultimate aerospace build-off, with epic prizes to win and a great cause to benefit. The competition will be multi-phase, so read on for details.
First, each game will host its own independent contest that challenges its community to flex their creativity and create the best LEGO® model possible. The competition runs from June 13 through June 27 and, as usual, you have the opportunity to fly away with some sweet prizes. Check out more details in the section below.
While we need your help in squashing the competition and showing why the Star Citizen community is the best in gaming, we also want to take a moment to remind everyone why this collaboration is so special to us. Both communities have one magical thing in common: we're all space nerds. In the spirit of showing the rest of the industry what the sci-fi genre is capable of, we wish the best for our competitors in their brick-building journey (even if they're certainly going to lose). Let's show the world that the more space games there are, the better.
Remember though, we said this was a multi-phase competition...
Once the dust settles on the community build-off, we're going head-to-head in an epic finale packed with the most ridiculous and excruciating challenges. We've invited the EVE Community team to travel to our studio in the UK for the ultimate ending to this bricktacular saga. On July 22, both Community teams will gather for a Livestream on Twitch. Each game's team will have to build the winning entries from the OPPOSING community's earlier contest. This means the Star Citizen Community team will build EVE ships, and EVE's Community team will build Star Citizen ships. Be sure to tune in to see who will walk away with the Battle of the Bricks crown...
But what's bigger and better than a crown? Coming together for a meaningful effort that we believe in. That's why we're teaming up with our friends at Extra Life to turn this friendly rivalry into the greatest cross-community fundraiser to date. Extra Life is a fundraising program of Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals. The Extra Life community fundraises year-round to Change Kids’ Health to Change the Future. Donations go to children’s hospitals to fund critical life-saving treatments and healthcare services, along with innovative research, vital pediatric medical equipment, and child life services.
Since its inception in 2008, Extra Life has raised over $100 million to Change Kids' Health to Change the Future. Right now, children's hospitals need our support, so let's get building.
