Siege of Orison
New Dynamic Event for Alpha 3.17.2
Our biggest Dynamic Event yet, Siege of Orison, is debuting in our latest patch Star Citizen Alpha 3.17.2!
Get ready to dive into an action-heavy adventure that has turned the once-idyllic city of Orison into a nightmare. Read on for all the info you need to survive the Nine Tail gang’s campaign of violence, including a mission rundown and tips from the designers themselves.
If this is your first time in the Star Citizen universe, visit our New Player Guide to master the basics before you head into combat.
Siege of Orison kicks off on July 30 at midnight UTC. For the full dynamic event schedule, head over to the Alpha 3.17.2 announcement thread on Spectrum. And don’t forget to gear up before attempting to break the Siege!
accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture
The Civilian Defense Force
The Civilian Defense Force (CDF) is a civilian militia endorsed by the UEE Advocacy. Founded in 2947, it was created with the enactment of the Militia Mobilization Initiative as a way for law enforcement to enlist the public to help neutralize significant threats to UEE systems. The CDF program is run under Advocacy supervision, so local pilots must petition the Advocacy for authorization to act on its behalf.
Special Agent in Charge
CDF Coordinator - Stanton System
Born and raised in Orison, Crusader, SAIC Rowena Dulli served with distinction in the UEE Navy as a logistics officer until she was recruited by the Marines. Since joining the Advocacy, she has quickly risen through the ranks as a proven investigator and field agent.
She volunteered to take over as attaché to the CDF in 2948 and will be running this operation.
Nine Tails
Despite the shocking crime scenes it leaves behind, Nine Tails is a relatively unknown criminal organization. However, it's proven through numerous well-publicized incidents that it's always willing to promote its cause through terrifying violence.
Nine Tails has gained a foothold in the Stanton system since its first documented appearance in 2938. The heavily armed outlaw gang now controls the officially abandoned Grim HEX space station near Yela, where it stirs up chaos by distributing orders to those who want to challenge the authorities.
Learn more about Nine Tails from our Narrative team in the Inside Star Citizen episode below and the official Nine Tails Portfolio.
accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture
accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture
Congratulations, you’ve successfully ended the Nine Tails occupation of Orison! Enjoy the generous mission reward and rare loot acquired throughout the siege in Star Citizen Alpha 3.17.2.
As always, we're looking forward to hearing your feedback on Spectrum and seeing your screenshots and videos on the Community Hub, in the Siege of Orison screenshot contest, and on social media with the hashtag #SiegeOfOrison.
Two new Dynamic Events are hitting the 'verse, so gear up and head into the fray at Orison and Jumptown. We have all the vehicles you need to gain an edge in the most hostile combat scenarios.
Get ready to fight back!
