PLAY NOW
NEW FEATURES
ALPHA 3.18
Explore the Biggest Star Citizen Update Yet!
Alpha 3.18 throws open the door to the next stage of Star Citizen’s groundbreaking universe. Alongside adding immersive careers, stunning locations, and thrilling gameplay, the latest patch holds the key to true in-game persistence – one of the biggest hurdles in the pursuit of a living universe that evolves alongside its inhabitants.
Play now to discover everything Alpha 3.18 brings to the 'verse. And remember, this is just the beginning; there’s much, much more on the horizon.
Technology: Universe-Wide Persistence
Persistent Entity Streaming is a huge update to Star Citizen’s core technology that enables the next generation of cutting-edge features and gameplay.
From items remaining after death to visiting new star systems in future releases, it’s a major step toward a fully realized Persistent Universe that evolves with the players that inhabit it.
Gameplay: Hull Scraping
Carefully dismantle crashed haulers or tear apart the losers of battles to make a fortune with the debut of Salvage gameplay.
Hull scraping is now available via the Aegis Reclaimer, all-new Drake Vulture, and by hand with the Greycat Multi-Tool. Further salvage mechanics will be added in upcoming releases.
Make your fortune with a dedicated salvage ship.
Vehicle: Specialist Salvage Ship
Get away from it all to a life on the drift with the Drake Vulture. Built purely for salvage, it’s ideal for enterprising pilots looking to make a living breaking wrecks apart.
This initial implementation includes hull scraping, with material mulching and processing coming in a later patch.
Start your salvage career today!
Gameplay: Vehicle Immobility
Alpha 3.18 introduces vehicle ‘soft death.’ Now, if one of a ship’s critical components is destroyed, the ship will remain intact but stranded, leaving its contents and crew hanging in the balance.
Soft death is key to the Salvage career, as abandoned vehicles can be ripped apart for serious profit by ships like the Aegis Reclaimer and all-new Drake Vulture.
Vehicle: EMP-Equipped Heavy Fighter
The Antares takes the already deadly RSI Scorpius fighter and outfits it with a devastating EMP generator and quantum jammer. Disable enemy ships, prevent them from fleeing, and take complete control of the battlefield.
And although upgraded for electronic warfare, the Antares hits hard enough to take down immobilized ships in a flash thanks to Size 3 weapons mounts and a Size 4 missile rack.
Add the devastating Antares to your fleet.
Feature: Cargo Mechanic Rework
Finally made possible by PES, this long-awaited refactor physicalizes cargo boxes and crates, allowing them to be picked up and moved in real-time.
While vital to ships like the MISC Hull series, it also makes piracy more lucrative, as cargo persists wherever it’s dropped.
Technology: Next-Gen Update to the Graphics Engine
Like PES, Gen12 is a hugely important update to Star Citizen’s core engine. This initial version renders all transparent geometry but will ultimately deliver vastly improved performance and visual fidelity in coming patches.
Gen12 is also the foundation of the Vulkan API, Star Citizen’s cutting-edge graphics platform currently in development.
Locations: Sand Caves & Rivers
Sand-cave networks are now waiting to be explored across the system. Alongside hosting various new and existing missions, they feature a unique harvestable that can be foraged and sold for profit.
Plus, more rivers and lakes have been placed around microTech alongside the debut of rivers on Hurston.
Location: 600i & Mercury Settlement
An all-new derelict settlement has landed on Daymar, this time made up of the remains of an Origin 600i and Crusader Mercury.
Like the previous settlements (and those coming soon), it features new missions that challenge players to clear out enemies, assassinate specific targets, recover items, and more.
Location: Update to Security Post Kareah Space Station
One of Stanton’s classic locations has been given a makeover with new missions and gameplay vital to the security of the system.
The station is now protected by full-time Crusader Security who, alongside guarding the fabled CrimeStat terminal, have begun storing confiscated materials and contraband around the place.
Gameplay: New Missions in Orison and Klescher
Planning a productive meeting at Orison’s Inspiration Park after the defeat of the Ninetails outlaw gang? Think again, Alpha 3.18 introduces new combat missions across the business sector platforms.
And for those on the wrong side of the law, doing hard time just got a lot easier. Now, guests of the Klescher Rehabilitation Facility on Aberdeen can enjoy new ways to reduce their stay, including collecting and handing in contraband.
Locations: New Racetracks
Buckle up, new raceways are open around the ‘verse! Found across six locations, including Daymar, Euterpe, and Area18, each unique circuit offers high-speed thrills with varying difficulty and environmental challenges.
Plus, a new Greycat PTV-only kart track is open in Orison for more down-to-earth racing action.
Lead the pack - discover the fastest ships in the 'verse.
