TAKE ON THE UNIVERSE
In this dimension
Energy crates
Quantum drive
BACK to RSI
Drake Cutter
Drake Cutter Q&A
Now that the Drake Cutter has been added to the 'verse, we posed a few questions to the vehicle team about the new, versatile starter ship. Here are the answers, straight from the designers themselves.
How does the Cutter's armor compare to other ships in its class?
Compared to other ships in its class, the Cutter is relatively tanky to offset its lower-than-average shields. This is achieved partly via its armor and partly by the base structure being stronger.
What advantages and disadvantages does this ship have versus the other starters in its class?
Aside from the slight armor advantage mentioned earlier, the Cutter has a full interior, a healthy four SCU of cargo, and generous quantum and hydrogen fuel tanks.
How does this ship handle, maneuverability-wise?
For its size, it’s relatively fast in a straight line but is let down by the smaller maneuvering thrusters, which don’t allow it to change velocity at higher speeds particularly well.
Does the Cutter have any docking collars?
It does not have a docking collar.
Do you see the Cutter being used as a snub or stevedore for ships it fits within, in the way the Pisces serves the Carrack?
The Cutter is probably too big of a ship to find much use in this category for anything but the largest of our ships, where it could certainly fill the role of a runabout. It’s a much larger and heavier ship than our more typical runabouts though, so it’s going to be quite a bit slower and more costly to fuel. However, it does have the advantage of being able to carry more than just people.
What ships will the Cutter fit inside?
At present, just the 890 Jump. However, it’s classified as an XS (Size 2) ship, so any future ships with that hangar size will accommodate it.
Can the Cutter carry any land vehicles?
This wasn’t a requirement of its design and, as such, none are officially supported. However, you’ll find that a few of our smaller vehicles currently fit, such as the Drake Mule and Greycat STV.
Is the cockpit separated from the cargo area to prevent venting, or is this all considered one area for the purposes of life support?
The Cutter is split into three areas: the cockpit, hab, and rear. The toilet is considered part of the hab for this purpose, so warn anyone else aboard.
What are the Cutter’s living amenities like?
Barebones is probably the nicest way to put it: you’ve got a bed with your very own reading light and a bathroom module. There’s also a little bit of shelving space to put things on and a personal storage locker.
What weapons can the weapon locker fit?
The weapon locker has room for two pistols, one longarm (such as rifle, shotgun, or LMG), one special weapon (such as a rocket launcher or railgun), and a MultiTool.
Combat-wise, where is the Cutter supposed to fit in the overall scheme of things?
The Cutter is quite low in the combat rankings; it’s not a combat-focused ship by any metric and its loadout reflects that. It’ll have difficulties against anything combat-focused, such as an Arrow or Gladius, but will hold its own against the other starter ships.
How does the signature of the Cutter compare to other starter ships when being scanned?
It has a slightly larger cross-section than most of the other starter ships due to just being bigger, but the IR and EM will be very similar as it has the same size and variety of components.
Can the external lighting be controlled by the pilot?
Only the main headlight is controlled manually. The external lighting is triggered by the power state of the ship.
Do the missile doors have clearance to open when the Cutter is landed?
They do, but we’d recommend not attempting to launch missiles whilst landed…
Why does the Cutter Scout make an excellent starter ship?
The Scout is built off the Cutter, which is an excellent starter ship by itself, so all the same benefits apply, including onboard habitation and high quantum-fuel capacity.
What advantages and disadvantages does the Cutter Scout have in comparison to the standard Cutter?
Compared to the base Cutter, the big standout is better object detection at greater distances. The trade-off for the larger radar and necessary supporting components is the reduction of cargo capacity from 4 SCU to 2 SCU.
How does the Cutter Scout compare against other scout ships like the Terrapin?
Compared to the Terrapin, the Scout functions quite well in the current game, packing the same-sized radar item, allowing it to have equal scanning capabilities. Ultimately though, it is more fragile than the Terrapin, so not suited to long-duration expeditions in hostile environments.
Is the Cutter Scout a multi-role scouting vessel, like the Freelancer DUR and Constellation Aquila, or a single-purposed scout ship, like the Terrapin?
It somewhat straddles the boundary between each. The Terrapin has extra armor to allow it to stay out for longer and travel further into hostile environments, while the Freelancer DUR and Constellation Aquila have greater onboard living capacity.
Gameplay-wise, where is the Cutter Rambler supposed to fit in the overall scheme of things?
The Rambler is the final of the three original Cutter variants that were planned when the ship was designed and pushes the long-distance-exploration aspect of the series.
What advantages does the Cutter Rambler have over the base Cutter and Scout?
Purely from a numbers side, the Rambler has by far the biggest range, featuring more hydrogen and quantum fuel via additional fuel tanks. In addition to that, the Rambler has a much larger habitation area. This includes a large storage space for weapons, suit lockers, and a food processor to allow the player to stay out in the ‘verse for longer.
How does the Cutter Rambler compare to its competitors? For example, the Origin 100i, the Anvil C8X Pisces, and the Consolidated Outland Mustang Beta?
The Rambler’s larger fuel tanks and more comfortable living space are designed to help the ship stay out there for longer and go further. Although it might not feature technology like the 100i's AIR system, its larger tanks give it plenty of staying power.
The Cutter Rambler comes factory-equipped with a food processor. Are there any additional supplies that come with the Rambler, such as drinks or medical supplies?
Although the Rambler features plenty of space to store supplies for exploring the ‘verse, it does not come fitted with any of these as standard. It will be down to the player to gather supplies and make choices about what to bring with them.
