PLAY NOW
Highly acidic
LUNAR NEW YEAR
This Promotion has Ended
Please browse our pledge store for available ships and paints.
Launch into the Lunar New Year with a bold new adventure from January 20 through February 6.
To ring in a prosperous Year of the Rabbit here on Earth in 2023, and Year of the Rooster in 2953 Stanton, we’re inviting you to celebrate the Red Festival with us. As is tradition throughout the UEE, red envelopes have been hidden across Stanton, and we're offering a variety of red and gold ship paints to tempt good fortune in the year ahead.
Read on for all the details.
We wish you a prosperous 2023!
新年快樂
새해 복 많이 받으세요
Chúc Mừng Năm Mới
accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture
Red envelopes are appearing around each of Stanton's major hubs and in various corners of the 'verse. Hunt them down and sell them at kiosks to ensure good fortune for the coming year; it might just be your lucky day.
The Red Festival is a celebration of renewal and remembrance with roots in old Earth customs that marked the end of a 'lunisolar year,' an ancient calendar system based on Luna's (Sol 3a) cycles. Celebrants honor the festival with a variety of traditions that differ greatly depending on the system and community participating.
Common activities include wearing red (a color that symbolizes good fortune), honoring friends and relatives by sharing stories, and eating foods long in length, such as calossk tentacles or dyed-red noodles. However, one of the most popular ways to celebrate is with the exchange of gilded red envelopes. On some worlds, these envelopes contain a small token that the receiver is supposed to keep with them for good fortune. On others, it could include a small number of credits to help those you care about have a strong start to the upcoming cycle.
Growing in popularity is the newer tradition of hiding envelopes as a way of spreading good fortune and prosperity to those that fate has deemed in need. The Banu in particular have taken up this tradition, hiding Red Festival envelopes in honor of Cassa, their Patron of Luck.
If you want to find out more about the Red Festival (and all the other holidays in Star Citizen lore), visit the Galactapedia.
