New Jump City
Read on for all the gory details
DON'T MISS THE ACTION
Jumptown Safe?
If you’re from around here, you’ve no doubt heard about Jumptown. Local legend tells of the infamous “hidden” drug lab on the icy moon of Yela, and the bloody conflicts that raged there as local factions vied to control its production or its fate. Now, years later, more drug labs have been uncovered in various locations around the Stanton system, and this time the firefights will be deadlier, the spoils richer, and the stakes higher than ever before.
In 2019, the Star Citizen community discovered a lucrative drug lab on the surface of Crusader’s moon Yela. What followed was completely unplanned and surprised everyone - including our development team.
Tens of thousands of players flocked to the outpost, with split motives in mind – eager outlaws and less-than-scrupulous organizations rushed to acquire and sell this newfound illicit treasure trove at any cost, while more lawful groups chose to lock down the station in a bid to prevent further criminal activity.
This clash resulted in a perpetual tug-of-war between far-flung factions and home-grown heroes over control of the outpost. You never knew what you’d find when approaching Jumptown, which only the most dedicated could locate, since it wasn’t easily pin-pointed on standard-issue maps.
These events were so profound, they ended up becoming official canon in Star Citizen’s lore – a prime example of player actions shaping the future of the ‘verse forever.
Originally released in Star Citizen Alpha 3.16, this event inspired by the original Jumptown wars, is back with all-new improvements that will challenge you like never before.
Read on for more details about what to expect, and be sure to outfit your force for the impending mayhem.
What Side of the Law Are You On?
This Event can be undertaken by either lawful or unlawful players. The mission itself plays out the same regardless of which path you take, with a few key differences.
To take the lawful path, be sure you have a CrimeStat of zero and then accept the mission from the local security office, marked in your contracts manager as a Priority mission. The drug boxes you collect at the mission site will need to be taken to the closest LEO port.
On the lawful path, if you successfully delivery at least one run of contraband back to the LEO port, you will receive an aUEC bonus on top of the price of the drugs you deliver.
To take the unlawful path, you must have a CrimeStat of any level and accept the mission from Ruto. To do this you will need to have a non-negative affinity with the mission giver. Ruto knows how valuable this intel is, so he also asks a buy-in for the mission.
On this path, all contraband must be taken to an unlawful trading post to be sold off, regardless of where the mission is taking place. The unlawful path will provide a bonus to the price of each successfully delivered drug box.
## Jumptown Schedule - Alpha 3.24
Each time listed represents a location change, and each location runs approximately 23 hours.
- September 5, 2024 at 9AM Pacific / 4PM UTC
- September 6, 2024 at 9AM Pacific / 4PM UTC
- September 7, 2024, at 9AM Pacific / 4PM UTC
- September 8, 2024, at 9AM Pacific / 4PM UTC
- September 9, 2024, at 9AM Pacific / 4PM UTC
- September 10, 2024, at 9AM Pacific / 4PM UTC
- September 11, 2024, at 9AM Pacific / 4PM UTC
- September 12, 2024, at 9AM Pacific / 4PM UTC
