PLAY NOW!
ALPHA 3.19
STAR CITIZEN
ALPHA 3.19
Call to Adventure
Follow the Call to a Life Among the Stars
Now is the perfect time to explore the vast universe of Star Citizen. From soul-stirring views to heart-racing missions, the Stanton system has never been as inviting for veteran and new players alike. Dive in to experience the latest features, fixes, updates, and quality-of-life improvements added in Alpha 3.19: Call to Adventure.
Deep in the microTech wilderness lies the crumbling remains of an outlaw settlement once used for counterfeiting credits. And, if the rumors are true, it’s back up and running…
Embrace the cold and leave civilization behind in pursuit of Ghost Hollow’s bounty. Just be careful, competition for control of the credit terminals is bound to get heated.
Ripping wrecks apart just got easier thanks to component salvage. Now, you can use the hand-held tractor beam to remove intact engines, powerplants, and more from abandoned ships and reuse them or scrap them for profit.
This initial version also lays the foundation for moving and placing cargo via ship turrets, which is planned for release soon in a coming patch. Visit the full Salvage Guide for everything you need to know.
Waste not, want not. Make a career salvaging destroyed or abandoned vehicles across the ‘verse with all-new salvage missions.
Whether you play by the rules and only claim what’s yours, risk it all for a vulnerable haul, or break into secure space to take what you can, there’s serious money to be made in the Salvage game.
Alpha 3.19 includes countless backend upgrades that will benefit everyone exploring the 'verse.
You can expect increased stability, more predictable item persistence, and a smoother overall experience from the second you enter Stanton.
Star Citizen features a beautiful sprawling universe full of wonder, adventure, and action. However, it’s easy for new citizens to feel overwhelmed as they take their first steps into life in the 30th century.
So, from Alpha 3.19, a whole-new guided mission will welcome new players to the ‘verse, including showing them how to get around, use the mobiGlas, and fly a ship in atmosphere and in space.
Jump to Hurston and set a course for the industrial city of Lorville, a brutalist behemoth nestled in the remains of long-abandoned mines and weapons testing sites.
One of Star Citizen’s earliest planetary locations, Lorville has been given a huge overhaul, with an all-new layout, revamped buildings, and a sense of scale that must be seen to be believed.
Alpha 3.19 introduces a much-improved mining experience for solo and multi-crew players alike, including a new UI that gives clearer, more detailed information on progress, risks, and more.
And with updates to tools, ore deposits, refining, and selling, miners must now travel the system to get the best return on investment and embrace the added risks and rewards that may bring.
May 19 - May 30
Welcome to Invictus Launch Week – the annual military event starring Humanity’s most deadly war machines. Visit the exhibition hall to explore the Navy’s in-service fleet and try many of them out for free!
The UEE Navy’s flagship, the colossal Bengal supercarrier, will be touring the system, while the fearsome Javelin Destroyer is open for guided tours. Explore everything military at the biggest Invictus event yet.
Alpha 3.19 Ship Offers: Mining & Salvage
