PLAY NOW!
ALPHA 3.20
STAR CITIZEN
ALPHA 3.20
FULLY LOADED
Dive Into Explosive Action Across a Seamless Universe
Head into the ‘verse to explore the most action-packed update yet. Whether you’re hauling vital cargo the length of the system, tackling alien hordes, exploring new locations, or risking it all for a place on the podium, Alpha 3.20 is packed with new adventures.
Legendary Cargo Hauler
Revered Empire-wide for its effortless intersystem hauling abilities, the four-crew MISC Hull C is a true titan of industry.
Take hauling cargo to the next level.
Updated Racing Mode
The all-action Arena Commander game module gets its biggest-ever update in Alpha 3.20. Speed freaks of the ‘verse can chase lap times on all-new circuits alongside the official addition of four community-favorite tracks.
Racing Variant of the Mirai Fury Snub
Mirai builds on the success of its Fury snub fighters with the LX, a zero-compromise racer built for performance.
Discover why real racers choose the Mirai Fury LX.
Improved Ship & FPS Combat Modes
From Tank Royale to Endless Vanduul Swarm, Arena Commander’s combat update adds explosive new modes that get you straight into the action.
New Cargo Sizes and Hull C Updates
Alpha 3.20 brings about new cargo functionality to include support for the newly-released MISC Hull C with automated cargo loading at Low Earth Orbit (LEO) stations, as well as improvements to the cargo placement systems and grids in ships to support various-sized boxes up to 32 SCU and different orientations of placements.
Debut of Outlaw Salvage Missions
This all-new mission challenges free-spirited players with stripping the hull of a definitely not-stolen ship that coincidently needs its identity erasing before the Advocacy turns up.
Introduction of Seraphim Station
One of Star Citizen’s earliest locations is being updated. Seraphim Station now hangs in orbit above Crusader in place of Port Olisar, offering everything a pilot needs before they begin an adventure.
Read the Full Alpha 3.20 Patch Notes
