PLAY NOW!
ALPHA 3.21
Star Citizen Alpha 3.21: Mission Ready
With high risk comes great reward, so head into the ‘verse to tackle some of the most dangerous missions yet. From infiltrating abandoned bunkers to restoring peace to a once-idyllic city in the clouds, Alpha 3.21 introduces all-new escapades for pilots of every level. Plus, there’s the latest groundbreaking tech, updated features, quality-of-life updates, and much more.
Missions: Steal Evidence at Security Post Kareah
This all-new mission tasks players with stealing key evidence from Security Post Kareah; a simple concept but a challenge for even the most seasoned outlaw. Plus, if you’re late to the party, the target evidence could already be in the hands of another player… how you retrieve it is your call.
Missions: Retrieve Packages from Underground Facilities
Buried far away from civilization lie Stanton’s underground facilities. Head deep into these once-thriving installations to extract valuable left-over items in the face of hostile force. And, while you’re there, why not liberate a few extra goodies to make the trip really worthwhile?
Missions: Repel Raid on Orison
Crusader’s breathtaking city in the clouds is under attack once again. New platforms across the gas giant Crusader enable multiple instances of the mission to be run simultaneously, meaning players can undertake the challenge at any time.
Flyable Ship: Crusader Spirit Bombing Variant
Embodying the spirit of the devastating A2 Hercules in a more usable package, Crusader’s newest compact bomber is a force to be reckoned with. A bespoke S5 bombing rig, front-and-rear weapons package, and space for 2 crew see the Crusader A1 Spirit reduce any threat to rubble.
Forge a Safer Future
Tech Update
Technology: Replications Layer Split
The Alpha 3.21 patch cycle debuts the Replication Layer split, which is vital to moving the Persistent Universe closer to a single shared environment between all players. This tech is a key milestone on the path to server meshing, Alpha 4.0, and beyond.
The Replication Layer split will debut in the new Preview Channel that runs alongside the live servers and lets players experience the latest technology and backend developments before they migrate to the live service.
Read the Full Alpha 3.21 Patch Notes
