PLAY NOW!
ALPHA 3.22
STAR CITIZEN
ALPHA 3.22
However you get your kicks, a universe of adventure is calling. Uncover the secrets of Stanton’s untamed wilderness, tear down hulking wrecks in the depths of space for a life-changing payday, or put it all on the line to take home the spoils of the Jumptown drug labs. Whatever adventure means to you, you’ll find it and more in Alpha 3.22: Wrecks to Riches.
Gameplay: Structural Salvage
Leave nothing behind and make the most of every wreck. Salvage ships now have the power to completely break down abandoned ship hulls and process them into saleable materials. Structural Salvage is available now via the Drake Vulture and Aegis Reclaimer.
Locations: New Derelict Settlements
Discover and explore 15 unique new settlements across the wild of Stanton. Some are abandoned, some act as local commerce hubs, and some house gangs that don’t tolerate intruders. There’s a lot to uncover across these new locations, with even more settlements coming in the future.
SQ42 Tech: New Hairstyles
As recently unveiled at CitizenCon 2953, all-new hairstyles are now available in the Character Customizer. Derived from the extensive work done on hair for Squadron 42, these latest additions are just the beginning of new tech entering the Persistent Universe from the single-player campaign.
Gameplay: Reworked Jumptown Event
Jumptown is back and more dangerous than ever. The gangs behind the drug labs have updated and reinforced their existing locations and added a brand-new facility on an island somewhere in the Hurston wilderness. Gear up, the chaos begins on December 22.
Player Inventory: Cargo Containers
Keep your kit close by and be ready for anything with a personal cargo container. Available from Stanton's cargo decks in one, two, four, and eight-SCU capacities, you can store weapons, ammo, armor, Picos… anything you need to get the job done.
Gameplay: New Maps, Modes, and Match Types
The second of three major updates to Arena Commander sees a thrilling new racetrack and arena, Bloodshot ridge, and a tense new FPS map, Maker’s Point. There are also new experimental modes and matches, while multi-crew spawning gets you and your friends into the game together, unlocking the true power of heavy hitters like the Aegis Hammerhead.
Flyable Ship: San’tok.yai Medium Fighter
The San’tok.yai represents the pinnacle of Xi’an design and manufacturing. Featuring unique alien design, shielding, and thruster tech, it’s a deadly fighter with exceptional maneuverability that can go toe-to-toe with the best of Humanity.
Take on the ‘verse now in the San’tok.yai.
Open-Canopy
Vehicle: X1
Small, agile, and fast, the X1 is the ultimate in high-end personal transport. Small enough to fit in many ships without compromising on Origin’s trademark luxury and performance, it’s a thrilling way to travel planetside.
Experience the thrill of the X1 series for yourself.
Flyable Ship: Cutter Rambler Explorer
Explore the wilderness unimpeded. The Rambler takes the tried-and-tested Cutter chassis and outfits it for adventure with improved habitation and larger fuel tanks, letting pilots travel further and for longer without heading back to civilization.
Explore without limitations in the Cutter Rambler.
The road less taken looks real good now, so ride out into the wildness on a great adventure this Luminalia. Tis the damn season, after all.
Celebrate Luminalia with your fellow citizens today.
ALPHA 3.22: WRECKS TO RICHES
PATCH NOTES
Read the full Alpha 3.22 Patch Notes.
