Luminalia 2953 Referral Bonus
The season of giving is upon us, and that continues with our Luminalia 2953 Referral promotion! This time, you and a friend will each receive unique rewards designed to help new players start out in the 'verse, while providing more experienced players the gear to take it to the next level.
Referral Bonus FAQ
What is the referral bonus?
The referral bonus gives you free gear for getting new players into Star Citizen. This time, you and the players you refer get an Aves armor set, undersuit, Aril Quicksilver backpack, FS-9 LMG, Sawtooth combat knife, RYT Multi-Tool and attachments, Gemini LH86 pistol, and Luminalia ship paint.
The bonus is granted when a new player uses your referral code and pledges for a starter pack or ship (minimum $40) on the Pledge Store.
The usual referral bonuses apply too, including 5000 aUEC and a point in the regular Referral Program.
This bonus promotion runs until January 8, 2024, 20:00 UTC.
How do I refer a friend?
Your friends must add your personal referral code when creating their accounts. This is crucial, as the code CANNOT be added after the account is created.
Where do I find my personal referral code?
You can find it on the Referral Program Page. Your Referral Code is unique and can be shared anywhere you like, including on social media, via email, or on your website.
What’s in it for me?
Recruiting one friend during the promotion gets you the CCC Aves armor set, Beacon Crimson undersuit, Aril Quicksilver backpack, FS-9 "Stoneface" LMG, Sawtooth "Bloodstone" combat knife, Pyro RYT "Bloodline" Multi-Tool and attachments, Gemini LH86 "Pathfinder" pistol, and Luminalia "Deck the Hull" green and red Drake Caterpillar ship paint.
What's in it for them?
The player you refer during the promotion will receive the Aves Talon armor set, One Light Teal undersuit, Aril Quicksilver backpack, FS-9 "Evergreen" LMG, Sawtooth "Squall" combat knife, RYT Multi-Tool and attachments, Gemini LH86 pistol, and Luminalia "IceBreak" blue and white RSI Aurora ship paint.
Can I earn more than one armor, paint, and gear set?
No. Only one armor, paint, and gear set can be earned per player.
What is the regular Referral Program?
The regular Referral Program empowers you to become a driving force behind the growth of the Star Citizen community. Plus, you’ll unlock cool in-game rewards, from exclusive hangar items to ships. The Referral Program Page details everything currently available.
When do I receive my referral reward?
The veteran player will receive their reward immediately once when the new player they are referring pledges for a starter pack or ship (minimum $40) on the Pledge Store. The new player's reward will be granted once the promotion ends on January 8. Rewards may be distributed in waves, so if you don't see it show up right away, it should populate soon.
Are there any limitations to the referral reward?
Yes. The Aves Armor, ship paint, and gear set given out as a referral reward is non-meltable and non-giftable.
Do the standard Referral Program and the limited Luminalia 2953 Referral Bonus work together?
Yes. All referrals gained during the bonus period go towards your total in the standard Referral Program.
Where can I find more information on the Referral Program?
Click here to check out our regular referral program.
Click here to find the Referral Program FAQ.
