PLAY NOW!
ALPHA 3.23
ADVENTURE BECKONS
STAR CITIZEN ALPHA 3.23
Worldbuilding: Fauna
Take care when exploring planetside; the kopion hound and marok bird now roam the ‘verse. While the marok will leave you alone, the kopion is a finely honed pack hunter, so tread carefully… This first iteration enables further fauna in the game, more of which will be added in coming patches.
Locations: Distribution Centers
Explore sprawling new industrial locations dotted around Stanton, each with fresh content and missions to discover. These Distribution Centers are owned by one of the ‘verse’s mega-corps, including Covalex Shipping and Sakura Sun, so each imposing structure features a unique layout, bespoke architecture, and well-paying opportunities for enterprising citizens.
Player Tools:  Character Customizer
Updates to the DNA tech behind the Character Creator give players more freedom than ever before to generate their perfect in-game avatar. New faces, hairstyles, and hair colors open up countless character combinations to ensure every player can be who they want to be.
Combat:
Master Modes
Master Modes is a major change to dogfighting that brings ships closer during combat. Alongside more intense skirmishes, it moves ships closer to their intended role. For example, light fighters can better utilize their increased maneuverability to avoid heavy attacks, while gunships should rely on their overwhelming firepower and high defense.
Player Control: EVA & Improved Movement
Getting around the ‘verse has never been more intuitive. Refined character movement makes traveling on foot easier, while floating through space is much more precise thanks to vastly improved EVA.
Quality of Life: Updated UI & Interactions
How players interact with the game world is now easier thanks to vastly improved UI and interactions. This much-anticipated rework includes how players navigate the mobiGlas, plan routes with the StarMap, use items, loot containers and enemies, and more.
Gameplay: Multi-Crew, Racetracks & Combat Maps
Alpha 3.23 introduces the final of three major updates to the all-action Arena Commander module. The latest release introduces a multi-crew engineering game mode alongside challenging ship racetracks and intense combat maps.
Game Engine: Water Tech & God Rays
StarEngine, the heart of Star Citizen, receives updates and new technology each release. In Alpha 3.23, Cloud and Water tech each receive significant new features, including the introduction of God Rays and realistic liquid physics, to deliver breathtakingly realistic environments across the entire system.
Vehicle: Mirai Pulse Grav-Lev Bike Series
With unmatched speed, agility, and portability, the all-new Mirai Pulse is the definition of versatility. Whether hitting the racetrack or exploring new horizons, there’s a Mirai Pulse to suit you.
Ride the Mirai Pulse Now!
Gameplay: FPS Combat Updates
First-person combat has been overhauled to make firefights more immersive. New scopes, more realistic recoil, dynamic crosshairs, ammo repooling, backpack reloading, and the ability to fire while prone all make for a more exciting shooting experience across the game.
ALPHA 3.23: PATCH NOTES
Read the full Alpha 3.23 Patch Notes
