Lunar New Year 2024 Referral Bonus
To ring in a prosperous new year as part of the Red Festival, we're inviting you to join in our Lunar New Year 2024 Referral promotion! When you refer a friend, you can receive a Drake Dragonfly, Red Alert Armor set with undersuit and backpack, plus a shotgun for free!
Referral Bonus FAQ
What is the referral bonus?
The referral bonus gives you free gear for getting new players into Star Citizen. This time, you and the players you refer get a Drake Dragonfly Black, as well as the CDS ADP-mk4 Red Alert armor set with matching undersuit and backpack, and Ravager-212 Red Alert shotgun.
The bonus is granted when a new player uses your referral code and pledges for a starter pack or ship (minimum $40) on the Pledge Store.
The usual referral bonuses apply too, including 5000 aUEC and a point in the regular Referral Program.
This bonus promotion runs until February 26, 2024, 20:00 UTC.
How do I refer a friend?
Your friends must add your personal referral code when creating their accounts. This is crucial, as the code CANNOT be added after the account is created.
Where do I find my personal referral code?
You can find it on the Referral Program Page. Your Referral Code is unique and can be shared anywhere you like, including on social media, via email, or on your website.
What’s in it for me?
Recruiting one friend during the promotion gets you a Drake Dragonfly, as well as the CDS ADP-mk4 Red Alert armor set, TCS-4 Red Alert undersuit, CSP-68H Red Alert backpack, and Ravager-212 Red Alert shotgun.
What's in it for them?
The player you refer during the promotion will receive the same rewards as you receive for referring them. These include a Drake Dragonfly, CDS ADP-mk4 Red Alert armor set, TCS-4 Red Alert undersuit, CSP-68H Red Alert backpack, and Ravager-212 Red Alert shotgun.
Can I earn more than one Dragonfly, shotgun, and armor set?
No. Only one Dragonfly, shotgun, and armor set can be earned per player.
What is the regular Referral Program?
The regular Referral Program empowers you to become a driving force behind the growth of the Star Citizen community. Plus, you’ll unlock cool in-game rewards, from exclusive hangar items to ships. The Referral Program Page details everything currently available.
When do I receive my referral reward?
The veteran player will receive their reward immediately once when the new player they are referring pledges for a starter pack or ship (minimum $40) on the Pledge Store. The new player's reward will be granted once the promotion ends on February 26. Rewards may be distributed in waves, so if you don't see it show up right away, it should populate soon.
Are there any limitations to the referral reward?
Yes. The Drake Dragonfly, CDS ADP-mk4 Red Alert armor set, TCS-4 Red Alert undersuit, CSP-68H Red Alert backpack, and Ravager-212 Red Alert shotgun given out as a referral reward is non-meltable and non-giftable.
Do the standard Referral Program and the limited Lunar New Year 2024 Referral Bonus work together?
Yes. All referrals gained during the bonus period go towards your total in the standard Referral Program.
Where can I find more information on the Referral Program?
Click here to check out our regular referral program.
Click here to find the Referral Program FAQ.
