March 2024
Subscriber Promotions
Welcome to March, Subscribers! There’s loads going on throughout the month, including another battle in the ongoing war for Jumptown. To help you in your pursuit of riches or righteousness, every subscriber gets access to Tumbril’s combat-ready Cyclone MT, while Imperators can also head to the labs in the versatile Crusader Mercury. This month’s Flair embraces the culture of Stella Fortuna, with fate-tempting tankards and lucky-green weaponry.
2954 Tempt Fate Tankard
- Featuring a clover motif with an antique finish, this pewter and brass tankard is perfect for making a traditional Stella Fortuna toast to "Tempt Fate."
- Current Centurion-level Subscribers get this item as part of their subscriptions.
Gemini C54 "Luckbringer" SMG
- The C54 fires 10mm rounds on full auto to provide maximum support and target saturation. This special green and grey Luckbringer edition released for Stella Fortuna 2954 is a great way to get luck on your side.
- Current Imperator-level Subscribers get this item and the above Centurion-level item as part of their subscriptions.
2954 Luck's Favor Tankard
- Beautifully crafted from genuine wood with pewter accents, this Stella Fortuna-themed tankard features a compass star and a reminder that "Luck Favors the Bold."
- This item is available for all Subscribers to pledge for in the Subscriber-Exclusive Store.
Gemini LH86 "Luckbringer" Pistol
- The LH86 from Gemini is a compact kinetic handgun designed for personal defense and close-quarter combat. This special green and grey Luckbringer edition released for Stella Fortuna 2954 is a great way to get luck on your side.
- This item is available for all Subscribers to pledge for in the Subscriber-Exclusive Store.
NOT A SUBSCRIBER?
If you would like to receive this flair as part of a subscription, you can subscribe before March 11, 2024 (20:00 UTC).
If you subscribe after March 11, you can pick up these and previous months’ flair (going back to 2014) in the Subscriber-exclusive store.
Subscriber-Exclusive Store
Centurion Subscribers: Tumbril Cyclone MT (with 12-month insurance)
Tumbril Cyclone MT: The MT is Tumbril’s ubiquitous Cyclone rover outfitted for heavy combat, effectively taking on both anti-personnel and anti-air roles thanks to a deadly gun and missile-rack combo - perfect for storming planetside drug labs.
Imperator Subscribers: Crusader Mercury & Tumbril Cyclone MT (with 24-month insurance)
Crusader Mercury: Embodying Crusader’s famed design and construction principles, the Mercury is a hugely capable all-rounder with a focus on hauling. Head into the fray of Jumptown guns blazing and leave with a cargo full of contraband.
Tumbril Cyclone MT: The MT is Tumbril’s ubiquitous Cyclone rover outfitted for heavy combat, effectively taking on both anti-personnel and anti-air roles thanks to a deadly gun and missile-rack combo - perfect for storming planetside drug labs.
MERCHANDISE DISCOUNT
Two continuous discount levels are available to all Subscribers in the Merch
Store. Centurion Subscribers receive a 10% off discount, while Imperator
Subscribers receive 15% off. Take advantage of this perk and peruse the
selection of available merchandise including jackets, hoodies, shirts, mugs,
hats, mousepads, posters, stickers, and more. Check out the now.
Merchandise Store
SUBSCRIBER STORE
All previous flair items going back to 2014 are available to pledge in the
Subscriber Store. You can fill in any gaps, pick up store-only items, or
grab extras to gift to non-Subscribers from the My Hangar section of your
RSI profile.
Subscriber Store
