The RSI Launcher 2.0 is here!
Discover the Roberts Space Industries 2.0 Launcher. Showcasing a brand new look and several new features, the RSI experience has never been better. Try it now!
DOWNLOAD NOW
Welcome to the start of the Launcher 2.0 adventure; we hope that you enjoy it. Thank you as always for your continued support!
Content Section
Access useful community resources, advice for new players joining the 'verse, news about the game and current development, or our latest patch notes all in one menu.
Real-time Status
Get notified right away when one of our game services is down or under maintenance.
Environment Selector
Cleanly switch between any of our numerous game environments directly from the Launcher.
Downloads Manager
Track, pause, resume or cancel multiple downloads all in one convenient place.
RSI Menu
Easily access app settings and other useful links to help fine-tune your experience.
Games Settings
Define specific settings for each environment, all from the comfort of the launcher.
What is the RSI Launcher?
The RSI Launcher is the application that allows you to install, update, and launch Star Citizen.
Throughout its history, the RSI Launcher has incorporated features like "VERIFY" to control your game files, or "STATUS" to let you know the state of the LIVE servers.
Why make a new RSI Launcher?
After many long years of service, our old Legacy Launcher was reaching its limits. A full revamp of the core tech of the app was needed. The ultimate goal of the RSI Launcher is to serve as a reliable tool for the community and get ready for the future of Cloud Imperium Games development.
What if I want to keep the old Launcher?
As of right now, the Legacy Launcher will still be accessible on the download page.
Eventually though (as we progress further into 2024), an auto-update from 1.6.10 to 2.0 will be implemented, and the legacy RSI Launcher 1.6.10 will no longer be supported.
Where is the game installed?
The default Game install path is C:\Program Files\Roberts Space Industries\StarCitizen\’channel name’.
You can always change the library path though, so instead of C:\Program Files\Roberts Space Industries, you can manually select the path that you want. The rest of the path will be automatically created by the Launcher (\StarCitizen\’channel name’).
Can I now install different game channels on different drives?
With this initial launch, you are still only able to install your different channels on one location. This serves as a means to facilitate the backward compatibility between the old and the new launcher.
In the next few months though, when the old launcher is eventually decommissioned, we will implement the possibility to install your different game channels on different locations.
The launcher does not detect the channel I already installed
On first use of the new Launcher, you might not detect the game you may have already downloaded.
Click on "INSTALL". If the Launcher finds the game, it will begin the process of verifying it, and should take only a couple minutes before you can Launch the game.
If your game is not installed in the default library path, you will have to correctly change the path in the Settings, or move your files to the indicated location.
What does the Verify button do?
The way our Download currently works is as follow:
- Download the Base Game Pack.
- Download the Manifest with the list of files needed for the specific game build.
- Download any missing files using the datapatcher
When you click on "VERIFY", the Launcher downloads the Manifest and analyzes your file. If files are corrupted or missing, the datapatcher will download these files.
I encountered an issue Launching the game. How can I troubleshoot and fix the problem?
There are a few different reasons that could prevent you from accessing the game, from an API error on Authentication or a network loss during the download.
A general approach would be:
- If you encountered an issue during the download or Launch of the game, it probably originated from the game files.
- Check your library path
- Verify the game files
- If the issue persists, you may need to redownload the game.
- If you encountered an issue using the Launcher outside of the download and launch features, you can try to:
- Log out from the Launcher
- Quit the Launcher
- Restart the Launcher
