April 2024
Subscriber Promotions
Spring has sprung, and we’re kicking off the season with the backbone of the ‘verse, the industrious MISC Hull series. Throughout April, Centurion subscribers can haul heavy loads with the iconic Hull A, while Imperator subscribers can tackle the biggest jobs in Stanton with the gargantuan Hull C. This month’s Flair is a collection of paints for MISC’s ubiquitous haulers along with exclusive water bottles to keep you cool on long-distance delivery runs.
Adventurer's Coloration and Hydration Pack
- Hull A Bombora Paint: Featuring a color scheme that's vibrant blue on the top and a vivid orange on the bottom, the Bombora livery gives the Hull A a strikingly distinct look.
- Magnus IV Water Bottle: Boast about your trip to the UEE's most exclusive and elusive destination, Magnus IV. While some still question if the planet actually exists, this refillable water bottle is irrefutable proof that you've totally been there.
- Current Centurion-level Subscribers get these items as part of their subscriptions.
Explorer’s Coloration and Hydration Pack
- Hull C Bombora Paint: Featuring a color scheme that's vibrant blue on the top and a vivid orange on the bottom, the Bombora livery gives the Hull C a strikingly distinct look.
- Quantanium Water Bottle: Make others believe you have the ability to tap into the awesome power of quantanium with this novelty water bottle. Unscrewing the lid produces an eerie blue glow that will make others truly wonder what you've got inside.
- Current Imperator-level Subscribers get these items and the above Centurion-level items as part of their subscriptions.
Hull A and Hull C Trailblazer Livery Pack
- The Trailblazer liveries create a cool, understated style for your Hull A and Hull C with grey on top and dark red on the bottom.
- This item is available for all Subscribers to pledge for in the Subscriber-Exclusive Store.
NOT A SUBSCRIBER?
If you would like to receive this flair as part of a subscription, you can subscribe before April 8, 2024 (20:00 UTC).
If you subscribe after April 8, you can pick up these and previous months’ flair (going back to 2014) in the Subscriber-exclusive store.
Subscriber-Exclusive Store
Centurion Subscribers: MISC Hull A (with 12-month insurance)
MISC Hull A: Despite being the smallest MISC hauler, the Hull A accommodates a significant 64 SCU of cargo, making it the most accessible way to move massive loads and make massive profits. It’s also fully usable alone - ideal for solo pilots looking to take their cargo careers seriously.
Imperator Subscribers: MISC Hull A & Hull C (with 24-month insurance)
MISC Hull C: The Hull C is the ideal entry point to industrial-scale hauling thanks to its vast 4608 SCU capacity. And you can travel with helping hands thanks to onboard habitation for four, a necessity when unloading full loads.
MISC Hull A: Despite being the smallest MISC hauler, the Hull A accommodates a significant 64 SCU of cargo, making it the most accessible way to move massive loads and make massive profits. It’s also fully usable alone - ideal for solo pilots looking to take their cargo careers seriously.
MERCHANDISE DISCOUNT
Two continuous discount levels are available to all Subscribers in the Merch
Store. Centurion Subscribers receive a 10% off discount, while Imperator
Subscribers receive 15% off. Take advantage of this perk and peruse the
selection of available merchandise including jackets, hoodies, shirts, mugs,
hats, mousepads, posters, stickers, and more. Check out the now.
Merchandise Store
SUBSCRIBER STORE
All previous flair items going back to 2014 are available to pledge in the
Subscriber Store. You can fill in any gaps, pick up store-only items, or
grab extras to gift to non-Subscribers from the My Hangar section of your
RSI profile.
Subscriber Store
