MAY 2024
Subscriber Promotions
Alpha 3.23 is almost here! Alongside loads of new content, including wildlife, the Character Creator, and Master Modes, the ‘verse will soon be littered with all-new Distribution Centers. To help you explore these vast new planetary locations, we’re giving all subscribers access to Origin’s littlest racer, the X1 hoverbike. Alongside the X1, Imperator subs can tour the depths of Stanton in absolute luxury in the 400i.
This month’s Flair is a selection of small arms with matching blue and gold liveries to keep you alive wherever you roam.
Klaus & Werner Lumin V ‘Valor’ SMG
- The bold blue and gold color scheme gives the Lumin V 'Valor' edition a valiant and dignified appeal.
- Current Centurion-level Subscribers get this item as part of their subscriptions.
Kastak Arms Karna ‘Valor’ Rifle
- The bold blue and gold color scheme gives the Karna Valor edition a valiant and dignified appeal.
- Current Imperator-level Subscribers get this item and the above Centurion-level items as part of their subscriptions.
Gemini F55 ‘Valor’ LMG
- The bold blue and gold color scheme gives the F55 Valor edition a valiant and dignified appeal.
- This item is available for all Subscribers to pledge for in the Subscriber-Exclusive Store.
NOT A SUBSCRIBER?
If you would like to receive this flair as part of a subscription, you can subscribe before May 13, 2024 (20:00 UTC).
If you subscribe after May 13, you can pick up these and previous months’ flair (going back to 2014) in the Subscriber-exclusive store.
Subscriber-Exclusive Store
Centurion Subscribers: Origin X1 (with 12-month insurance)
Origin X1: Although the smallest Origin vehicle to date, the X1 embodies the brand’s commitment to luxury and performance. This class-defying hoverbike is built for anyone who’s ever asked, “Can I go faster?”
Imperator Subscribers: Origin X1 & 400i (with 24-month insurance)
Origin 400i: Travel further in absolute comfort. The Origin 400i features class-leading range alongside the luxury and performance you expect from an Origin ship, helping you effortlessly explore the toughest corners of the galaxy.
Origin X1: Although the smallest Origin vehicle to date, the X1 embodies the brand’s commitment to luxury and performance. This class-defying hoverbike is built for anyone who’s ever asked, “Can I go faster?”
MERCHANDISE DISCOUNT
Two continuous discount levels are available to all Subscribers in the Merch
Store. Centurion Subscribers receive a 10% off discount, while Imperator
Subscribers receive 15% off. Take advantage of this perk and peruse the
selection of available merchandise including jackets, hoodies, shirts, mugs,
hats, mousepads, posters, stickers, and more. Check out the now.
Merchandise Store
SUBSCRIBER STORE
All previous flair items going back to 2014 are available to pledge in the
Subscriber Store. You can fill in any gaps, pick up store-only items, or
grab extras to gift to non-Subscribers from the My Hangar section of your
RSI profile.
Subscriber Store
