FLY NOW
In this dimension
Energy crates
Quantum drive
BACK to RSI
Argo MPUV Tractor
MPUV Tractor
by Argo Astronautics
Now that the Argo MPUV Tractor has been added to the 'verse, we posed a few questions to the vehicle team about the new cargo loader ship. Here are the answers, straight from the designers themselves.
What is the MPUV Tractor's intended role?
It’s an MPUV with two tractor beams and a 16-SCU cargo hardpoint, so it can be used to load and unload larger ships, make local deliveries, move heavy items, and carry anything else you can think of.
Which ships would benefit from being paired with the MPUV Tractor?
Anything that needs to be loaded or unloaded in a hurry. If you want to step up your cargo-running empire, then the MPUV Tractor can be a significant timesaver.
What ships will the MPUV Tractor fit inside?
The MPUV Tractor is designed to fit inside any vehicle with an XS landing pad, though we have no doubt people will be able to find extra places to store it.
Will the MPUV Tractor's cockpit setup differ from the MPUV Personnel/MPUV Cargo?
The MPUV Tractor received a full interior pass, bringing in all the latest dashboard tech, including proper interactive buttons and an all-new MFD layout. This will be rolled out to the existing MPUVs in the future.
How will this ship fit into the scheme of things when freight elevators are implemented?
The MPUV Tractor will be there to do the heavy lifting for bigger ships, such as helping a larger cargo vehicle unload and load their goods.
Can I get a cargo or personnel-transport pod and attach it to MPUV Tractor module bay?
Currently no, but in the future we plan to allow this.
Can other vehicles or large items (such as an SCU container) be attached to the module bay?
Currently, the MPUV Tractor’s cargo bay only supports a 16-SCU crate.
Can the other two MPUV variants equip tractor beams?
Currently no, they’re still using the older ship model. However, in the future, they will get an update, which includes making the pods interchangeable.
Will we be able to swap the tractor beams for something else?
Currently, there are no plans to allow anything other than tractor beams on these hardpoints.
What is the maximum size and weight that the tractor beams can handle?
The MPUV Tractor features Size 1 and Size 2 Greycat Industrial tractor beams, so can lift anything supported by these sizes.
Can the two beams be used independently of each other? For example, will each beam be able to carry a container at the same time?
Yes. In addition, you could attach a 16-SCU container under the body using the cargo hardpoint, allowing you to move up to three different cargo containers at once.
Do the tractor beams come with spotlights attached, like the Cutlass Red's manned spotlight?
No, they are standard tractor beam components, so don’t come with spotlights.
How does this ship handle, maneuverability-wise?
The MPUV Tractor uses the same thruster profile as the Personnel and the Cargo. But, due to the lighter weight, there may be a marginal difference.
Does it have small storage compartments onboard?
Yes. Just before you enter your vehicle, approaching from the left side, there is a personal storage compartment that will hold a small number of personal objects.
