Secure Yours Now
In this dimension
Energy crates
Quantum drive
BACK to RSI
Ursa Medivac
by RSI
The Ursa Medivac provides frontline medical support essential to any ground operation. The speed, handling, and durability of the Ursa, coupled with the high-tech onboard med-bed mean that death and/or dismemberment are no longer synonymous with defeat!
We asked the Vehicle and Gameplay teams a few questions about RSI's new Ursa medical variant. Here are the answers, straight from the devs themselves.
How does the Medivac differ from the Ursa and Lynx rovers?
The Ursa Medivac features a standard Tier 3 MedBed with a remote station, which takes up half the rear space found in the other rovers.
What is its size compared to a base Ursa rover?
It has identical external dimensions to the existing Ursa rover.
How do the Medivac’s defenses compare to the base Ursa?
The Medivac has slightly more armor than the Ursa to provide additional protection to its occupants, though it’s not considered ‘heavily armored.’ It has the same shield loadout as the base Ursa and Lynx.
Does the Medivac have any additional means of self-defense?
Alongside improved armor, the Medivac retains the twin CF-117 Bulldog laser repeaters from the base Ursa.
What does this mean for the future of Death of a Spaceman?
The Ursa Medivacs' respawning capability is a small component of a wider interconnected set of systems that we dubbed some time ago as 'Death of a Spaceman.' This framework encompasses everything related to a player's health, death, respawn, and legacy. While the respawning system is currently active in the game, other related systems, such as regeneration degradation, inheritance, and additional components of 'Death of a Spaceman,' are yet to come online. It remains our intent for dying and respawning to carry a notable impact, adding more meaning (and danger) to your adventures in the 'verse.
Does it have a manned spotlight to search for casualties or flashing lights and sirens?
No. At one point, we considered replacing the turret with sirens and lights but ultimately decided to keep the weapons to aid self-defense.
What is the Medivac’s top speed compared to the base Ursa?
Compared to the base vehicle, the Medivac is slightly slower due to the weight of the additional armor.
Does the Medivac have any built-in storage?
Yes, it has personal storage and a weapons rack, plus the MedBed and a jump seat.
Does it feature a better radar to counter hostiles and find people to rescue?
No, it comes with the same default radar as the Ursa rover.
Are tires still planned to be modular? For example, will we be able to equip the Lynx's tires on the Medivac?
Yes, tires are still planned to be swappable items, along with things like engines and transmissions. The aim is to bring ground vehicles closer to spaceships in terms of upgradeability and progression.
Are the Ursa and Lynx's paints swappable with the Medivac?
Yes, they are all interchangeable.
