SECURE YOURS
In this dimension
Energy crates
Quantum drive
BACK to RSI
SABRE FIREBIRD
Sabre Firebird
by Aegis Dynamics
Facilitating a devastating marriage of speed and ballistic firepower, the Firebird brings the heat to the infamous Sabre chassis.
We asked the Vehicle and Gameplay teams a few questions about Aegis' new Sabre missile variant. Here are the answers, straight from the devs themselves.
With this being the third Sabre to enter the lineup, why would someone choose the Firebird over another variant?
Given the exclusive nature of the Sabre Raven, most players only have access to the base Sabre. So, between that and the Firebird, the main decision is how they want to engage in combat, as the Firebird prioritizes missiles over guns.
The Firebird has a different silhouette to the base Sabre. Does this provide any advantages or disadvantages in signature or flight capability?
The Firebird’s shape provides a different cross-section signature compared to the base Sabre, but IR and EM wise, they’re very similar given the near identical base component loadout. However, the Firebird’s performance and handling characteristics are closer to the Raven.
How does the Firebird compare to ships like the Gladiator, Talon Shrike, Fury MX, and other missile-focused fighters?
Thanks to 24x S3 missiles, it sits firmly in the upper end of those ships in terms of total damage output. And, while having a similar loadout to the Talon Shrike, the Firebird can fire a salvo of 6 missiles at a time, compared to only 4 for the Shrike.
Note: The 12x original S3 missiles have been increased to 24x S3 missiles, which should be released on the Live server with Update 3.23.1a
Does the Firebird have any on-board personal storage in lieu of cargo capacity?
Yes, it has externally accessible personal storage and a weapon rack.
Can the missile racks be replaced with smaller-sized racks to provide a larger number of smaller missiles?
The Firebird has a bespoke missile rack, so the 12x S3 capacity cannot be adjusted. However, the missiles within can be exchanged.
What kinds of ships do you see the Firebird being most effective against?
The Firebird is classed as a medium fighter/interceptor. As such, it’s designed to combat similar-sized fighters, though its missile loadout provides extra punch against slightly larger ships.
How does the Firebird handle compared to similar-sized fighters?
Like the Raven, the Firebird is tuned more toward intercepting, so sacrifices some agility for improved straight-line speed.
Can the Firebird be “converted” to the same loadouts as the base Sabre and Raven?
No, each ship has a unique hull with bespoke items. As such, the Firebird’s missile launcher and Raven’s EMP are not interchangeable.
Do any of the Sabre variants share paint compatibility?
Yes, the paints are compatible across the Sabre family.
