JUNE 2024
Subscriber Promotions
Although the fleet has left Stanton and the new Navy recruits are settling into their bunks at MacArthur, Subscribers can keep the spirit of Invictus alive throughout June in classic Navy war birds.
Despite the recent focus on military posturing, the hardworking heroes of the Empire haven’t been forgotten, as this month’s Flair will keep all industrious citizens safe when handling the most dangerous substances.
Greycat Industrial TruBarrier Hazard Suit and Mask - Dark Biohazard
- The Dark Biohazard edition lets you retain an air of mystery while also letting the 'verse know you’re a pro when it comes to tangling with hazardous materials.
- Current Centurion-level Subscribers get this item as part of their subscriptions.
Greycat Industrial TruBarrier Hazard Suit and Mask - Hi-Vis Biohazard
- The Hi-Vis Biohazard edition is sure to stand out, even in low-light situations, and that cool logo lets the 'verse know you’re perfectly at home going toe-to-toe with hazardous materials.
- Current Imperator-level Subscribers get this item and the above Centurion-level items as part of their subscriptions.
Greycat Industrial TruBarrier Hazard Suit and Mask - Warning
- The Warning edition lets you show off both your dark, mysterious side, and the side that wants hazardous waste to know it’s met its match.
- This item is available for all Subscribers to pledge for in the Subscriber-Exclusive Store.
NOT A SUBSCRIBER?
If you would like to receive this flair as part of a subscription, you can subscribe before June 11, 2024 (20:00 UTC).
If you subscribe after June 11, you can pick up these and previous months’ flair (going back to 2014) in the Subscriber-exclusive store.
Subscriber-Exclusive Store
Centurion Subscribers: Anvil Gladiator (with 12-month insurance)
Anvil Gladiator: Embodying form over function to devastating effect, the Anvil Gladiator has long been the Navy’s go-to dive bomber. A twin S6 torpedo rack alongside a heavy-hitting manned turret makes it a formidable force against any sized enemy ship.
Imperator Subscribers: Anvil Gladiator & Aegis Eclipse (with 24-month insurance)
Aegis Eclipse: The Aegis Eclipse is a bomber designed to get in and strike before it's even spotted. After extensive service with the UEEN, this high-tech military stalwart has been embraced by the civilian market for its speed and devastating explosive payload.
Anvil Gladiator: Embodying form over function to devastating effect, the Anvil Gladiator has long been the Navy’s go-to dive bomber. A twin S6 torpedo rack alongside a heavy-hitting manned turret makes it a formidable force against any sized enemy ship.
MERCHANDISE DISCOUNT
Two continuous discount levels are available to all Subscribers in the Merch
Store. Centurion Subscribers receive a 10% off discount, while Imperator
Subscribers receive 15% off. Take advantage of this perk and peruse the
selection of available merchandise including jackets, hoodies, shirts, mugs,
hats, mousepads, posters, stickers, and more. Check out the now.
Merchandise Store
SUBSCRIBER STORE
All previous flair items going back to 2014 are available to pledge in the
Subscriber Store. You can fill in any gaps, pick up store-only items, or
grab extras to gift to non-Subscribers from the My Hangar section of your
RSI profile.
Subscriber Store
