JULY 2024
Subscriber Promotions
There’s a lot going on this July, with the Jumptown drug labs starting up again, Foundation Festival kicking off, and the beginning of everyone’s favorite vehicular face-off, Ship Showdown. If you need a breather, head out in the latest Ship of the Month and spend some quality time alone, ripping wrecks and getting paid for the pleasure. This month’s Flair takes inspiration from the lawless system of Pyro.
RRS Sunspike Combat Knife
- Protect yourself from the dangers of lawless systems, or the wilds of your own backyard with this trusty blade.
- Current Centurion-level Subscribers get this item as part of their subscriptions.
Drake Corsair - Dying Star Paint
- Originally commissioned in 2943 to celebrate the 450th anniversary of Pyro's discovery, the Dying Star livery has been modified from its original form with the addition of graffiti.
- Current Imperator-level Subscribers get this item and the above Centurion-level item as part of their subscriptions.
Drake Vulture - Dying Star Paint
- Originally commissioned in 2943 to celebrate the 450th anniversary of Pyro's discovery, the Dying Star livery has been modified from its original form with the addition of graffiti.
- This item is available for all Subscribers to pledge for in the Subscriber-Exclusive Store.
NOT A SUBSCRIBER?
If you would like to receive this flair as part of a subscription, you can subscribe before July 9, 2024 (20:00 UTC).
If you subscribe after July 9, you can pick up these and previous months’ flair (going back to 2014) in the Subscriber-exclusive store.
Subscriber-Exclusive Store
Centurion Subscribers: Drake Vulture (with 12-month insurance)
Drake Vulture: Answer no one, cut out the middleman, and throw caution to the wind. Rip wrecks like a pro and carve out your own place in the ever-expanding universe with this rough and rugged salvage machine.
Imperator Subscribers: Drake Corsair & Drake Vulture (with 24-month insurance)
Drake Corsair: Heed the call of uncharted space and harness the spirit of exploration with the Corsair, a worthy companion that supports you in battle, discovery, and delivery, wherever the winds of adventure steer you.
Drake Vulture: Answer no one, cut out the middleman, and throw caution to the wind. Rip wrecks like a pro and carve out your own place in the ever-expanding universe with this rough and rugged salvage machine.
MERCHANDISE DISCOUNT
Two continuous discount levels are available to all Subscribers in the Merch
Store. Centurion Subscribers receive a 10% off discount, while Imperator
Subscribers receive 15% off. Take advantage of this perk and peruse the
selection of available merchandise including jackets, hoodies, shirts, mugs,
hats, mousepads, posters, stickers, and more. Check out the now.
Merchandise Store
SUBSCRIBER STORE
All previous flair items going back to 2014 are available to pledge in the
Subscriber Store. You can fill in any gaps, pick up store-only items, or
grab extras to gift to non-Subscribers from the My Hangar section of your
RSI profile.
Subscriber Store
