Hadur mystical wellspring
Tools of the Trade
Medical Facilities
Back to Foundation Festival
Medical Guide
Star Citizen's persistent universe bolsters a comprehensive medical system, complete with hospitals, tiered injuries, and a plethora of medical drugs and tools. Join us as we dive deep into each of these new features in hope you'll be properly equipped to face this update, which significantly ups the stakes of surviving in the 'verse.
And if you're looking for additional help to get started in medicine, check out the Guide System to get paired with an experienced player who can help show you the ropes.
Medical Pens
Simple and effective, pens deliver the specific medicine you need quickly and easily
Medical pens are an easy, straight-forward way to treat either yourself or another person in the field, and conveniently, all medical drugs can be purchased in pen form (more on those later). To use a pen, hold the 4 key to open a radial menu and select the pen you'd like to use. From here, either press B to use it on yourself, or use Mouse 2 to apply it to someone else. These controls apply to all medical tools.
Using the dedicated attachment, your Multi-Tool can be used to deliver Hemozal in a pinch, both to yourself and others from a distance
The Multi-Tool can be equipped with the LifeGuard medical attachment in order to be used as a life-saving device. More precise and effective than a MedPen, with the added benefit of healing from a short distance, this attachment is limited to administering Hemozal.
Curelife Medical Tool
A must-have for any medical professional, this tool can administer any medical drug in precise amounts, as well as provide detailed medical scans
A must-have for any medical professional, this tool can administer any of the five medical drugs in precise amounts, or simply apply Hemozal as needed. What's more, it can also provide detailed medical scans of another person, highlighting specific injuries and recommending treatments.
SHOW MORE
The Curelife Medical Tool can detect injuries and health status of any person. Simply aim the tool at the person to see this information. You can also highlight specific limbs this way to see inflicted injuries. This tool has two separate modes: Basic and Advanced. Basic mode simply applies Hemozal, similar to the Multi-Tool's capability. Advanced mode lets you apply all five medical drugs in the precise amount of your choosing. To switch between the two, as well as adjust drug quantity, hold the tool up using the Right Mouse Button, then hold the F key to interact with the tool's screen.
Using the Curelife Medical Tool
Stops bleeding, restores health percentage to current maximum, and can bring a person back from incapacitation.
Hemozal is the primary drug used by medics, and can be found in both a pen (MedPen) as well as used by both the Curelife Medical Gun and the LifeGuard Medical Attachment for the multi-tool. This drug can stop bleeding and restore health up to the current maximum, in addition to bringing a person back from incapacitation. Bleeding is stopped with any amount of the drug used.
Relieves muscle fatigue and concussion symptoms
Demexatrine is a form of synthetic adrenaline that can be used to relieve muscle fatigue and symptoms related to being concussed. This can help with weapon sway and slowed movement effects caused by injuries. Demexatrine can be administered via either a pen (AdrenaPen) or the Curelife Medical Tool's advanced mode.
Alleviates symptoms that hinder movement, such as severe injury to legs or arms
Roxaphen is a painkiller that can assist with relieving the symptoms that limit your movement drastically, such as a severe injury to your legs or arms preventing you from standing or holding objects, respectively. Roxaphen can be administered via either a pen (OpioPen) or the Curelife Medical Tool's advanced mode.
Relieves symptoms caused by muscle weakness or respiratory damage, such as a chest injury
Sterogen is a corticosteroid that can help relieve symptoms associated with muscle weakness or respiratory damage, such as a chest injury's effects of reduced melee damage or a head injury causing your vision to be blurred. Sterogen can be administered via either a pen (CorticoPen) or the Curelife Medical Tool's advanced mode.
Used to reduce BDL over time as well as alleviate symptoms caused by an overdose
Resurgera is a rapid detoxicant that, when taken, begins to slowly reduce a raised Blood Drug Level, and can also reduce the symptoms caused by an Overdose. Resurgera can be administered via either a pen (DetoxPen) or the Curelife Medical Tool's advanced mode.
Medical Facilities
Now that we're familiar with injuries, we need places to heal them. Medical facilities can be found all over the 'verse, from massive cities to small space stations. There are even a select few ships that offer medical care within them.
If it's a public facility and not a ship, feel free to admit yourself using the Patient Check-In console, which functions similarly to an ASOP terminal. Below are the three types of medical facility, as well as what services they provide.
Hospitals and clinics, or Tier 1 medical facilities, can be found on all major landing zones. They can be used to stabilize a patient, treat any injury, and bring back a person from death.
Hospitals & Clinics
Some larger ships, such as the Carrack, 890 Jump, and Polaris, are equipped with a medbay classified as a Tier 2 medical facility. They can be used to stabilize a patient, treat minor to moderate injuries, and bring back a person from death. Respawning to one of these facilities aboard a vehicle requires you to be within a short distance (50km).
Ambulances, or Tier 3 medical facilities, can be found in medical ships such as the Cutlass Red. They can be used to stabilize patients, treat minor injuries, and bring back a person from death. Respawning to one of these facilities aboard a vehicle requires you to be within a very short distance (20km).
The medics and pilots taking on this career are the unsung heroes of the 'verse, and we hope this gives those interested in joining their ranks a solid foundation to begin their journey as a healer. Medical gameplay will continue to expand in the future with additional ailments, cybernetics, and far greater consequences for dying, making your role even more significant in the persistent universe.
Be sure to check out the Guide System to get paired with a fellow medic, and head over to Spectrum to provide any and all feedback on medical gameplay in Star Citizen.
