Vessel a resonance cascade Bruder
Back to Foundation Festival
INDUSTRIAL GAMEPLAY GUIDE
2024-09-03 19:53:03
Mining & Refining Guide
The 'verse is filled to the brim with valuables buried just beneath the surface, from metals like Iron to fuel sources like Quantanium. Below you'll find some tips and tricks to get you started on cracking open some rocks, big or small, and finding the profits within.
And if you're looking for additional help in the 'verse, check out the Guide System to get paired with an experienced player who can help show you the ropes.
Occasionally you may come across a deposit that's too tough to crack. Thankfully, there's a few additional tools you can acquire that can assist!
Mining Heads for vehicles can assist with things like deposit stability, extra resistance mitigation, or general responsiveness for the pilot. New heads can also increase the slots for sub-items or components, furthering your mining capabilities.
Mining Modules are items that can be inserted into your vehicle's mining laser head, changing its attributes. These are extremely versatile and can do anything from increasing your laser power to giving you a larger optimal charge window for fracture. These modules can either be passive, permanent upgrades or more drastic improvements with a limited number of uses before they are consumed.
Mining Gadgets are devices you can purchase to even further extend your capability to fracture a particularly ornery ore deposit. These must be placed by hand on the deposit itself, which can be risky in certain areas of the 'verse. But the benefit may outweigh this risk, as the changes to the vein's properties are quite drastic.
For all three of these item types, visit your local refinery center on most lagrange space stations marked as "L1".
Augmentation Station
We've got our haul! Now it's time to make some money. Raw ore can be sold directly to many stations, outposts, and cities, but there's more UEC to be made. Head to an L1 lagrange station and head to the refinery deck. Your ore can be sold for greater profits once refined!
The refining process is variable, with a few different options to smelt down your ore. Each of these comes with a trade off, in either speed, cost, or yield. Depending on your needs, select a refining process at the refining station to see all the details you need. Once the process is selected, start the work order! Multiple work orders can be initialized in tandem, allowing you to refine multiple ore types using multiple process methods.
Refined ore can then be sold at your local trade kiosk. Compare prices across the system for each ore type, use the refining process that makes the most sense for you, and choose the right buyer at the right time to maximize the cold, hard UEC you're making!
Time to Refine
