Secure Yours Now
In this dimension
Energy crates
Quantum drive
BACK to RSI
Aegis Sabre Peregrine
Sabre Peregrine
by Aegis Dynamics
The fastest Sabre model ever conceived, the Peregrine takes the infamous military-born Sabre chassis and tunes it for unadulterated speed; the already streamlined frame is propelled by bespoke thrusters and carefully optimized engines that elevate the Peregrine’s straightaway speed to a whole different league.
Now that Aegis' first dedicated racer has entered the 'verse, we asked the Vehicle and Gameplay teams a few questions about the Sabre Peregrine. Here are the answers, straight from the devs themselves.
As Aegis Dynamics is traditionally a military manufacturer, why is it building a racer?
Traditionally, but not exclusively. While a lot of Aegis hardware is designed for military application, Aegis and other manufacturers always look to see what other markets they can expand into based on the resources available. With the Raven and Firebird chassis, it made sense to provide a more civilianized version of the platform.
Does the Aegis Peregrine have any flight characteristics that would be advantageous in raw speed, given that the Peregrine is the fastest bird in real life?
Due to the original ship’s archetype, the Peregrine exhibits impressive forward acceleration in normal conditions and when using its afterburner, which is rated as one of the strongest among its competitors.
What sets this racing variant apart from others in terms of its unique strengths?
The most prominent characteristics are its unique and unmatched forward acceleration, enhancing the ship's racing prowess, and a stronger afterburner for reactive acceleration during difficult turns.
Are there any unique flight characteristics, acceleration, and maneuverability in atmospheric flight?
The fundamental thing that distinguishes the Peregrine from other ships is its original archetype. While most racers are based on snub/light fighters/interceptors, the Peregrine elevates the medium interceptor archetype to competition standards, making it the most formidable vessel in forward acceleration at the expense of some nimbleness due to its larger size.
Where does it sit in terms of acceleration, maximum speed, and maneuverability compared to other racing crafts like the M50, Razor, and 350r?
The Sabre Peregrine is the answer to everything the Fury LX isn't. These are our two unarmed racing ships, so they’re designed to be our ultimate pace setters. While the Fury's gimballed main thrusters give it good maneuvering in twisty sections, the Peregrine is the opposite; the main thruster is typically positioned but its power is far from typical, enabling the Peregrine to accelerate at up to almost 30 Gs. Pair that with high aerodynamics and this is a hero of the racetrack that emphasizes top speed over cornering.
The Peregrine has an ‘engine performance booster.’ Can you explain this new component and how it works?
Due to the extra physical space, the performance booster means the Peregrine's performance is the best of all the Sabres. It’s 13% faster to accelerate than the Firebird and 55% faster than the base Sabre. This does come at the cost of running hotter and using more fuel.
Is the Peregrine equipped with stealth components, like the Sabre and Sabre Raven?
The Peregrine is not equipped with stealth components. Pilots can expect its signatures to be extremely visible, as the design intention was for it to run hot with little IR suppression and to have a large cross-section signature thanks to its large aerodynamic surface area. Speed was the priority when making these decisions.
Does the main thruster of the Peregrine differ from those of the Raven or the Firebird?
It's designed for performance, at the sacrifice of heat and efficiency, to make sure it's best in class.
Why was the single-main-thruster design of the Raven/Firebird chosen for a dedicated racing variant instead of the twin-main-thruster design of the base Sabre chassis?
Mostly rule of cool. It has a slightly revised single-engine design to provide a nod to the intended racing performance.
Compared to the base Sabre, the Peregrine features 12 maneuvering thrusters instead of 10, aligning with the design of the Firebird. Do the performance characteristics of its maneuvering thrusters differ from those of the Firebird, making it more maneuverable than the combat variant?
The performance profile of the Peregrine, compared to all other variants in the series, is tailored specifically for racing. A higher count of maneuvering thrusters allows the ship to achieve consequently greater lateral and vertical acceleration compared to other variants of the same class, even the combat-focused ones. However, this comes at the expense of overall hull resistance to enemy attacks, making the racing variant unsuitable for engagements, especially without any offensive weaponry.
What is its maximum SCM speed, and does it accelerate to the maximum speed faster than other Sabre variants?
The maximum SCM speed of the ship is set to 267 m/s, and the ship's acceleration is significantly stronger than that of other Sabre variants, both with and without the afterburner engaged.
Is the fuel capacity and consumption of this variant different from the other Sabre variants?
The fuel capacity is the same as other variants, but you can expect it to burn through fuel faster than other Sabre variants.
The Peregrine is the only non-snub racing ship without any weapons. What are the advantages of not having offensive capabilities and which means of self-defense are available to the pilot? Does it benefit from its low profile or extra countermeasures?
The benefit of having no weapons is reduced weight and complexity. Like in a modern racing car, this is an easy way to make it faster, as it's lighter and more aerodynamic. From a design perspective, having no weapons also removes the Peregrine from balance discussions in PVP combat. This ship is not intended to be used in actual combat and is expected to disengage and flee any battles.
The ship is equipped with countermeasures and two S1 shields. Otherwise, its main defensive asset is its speed. Even as an interceptor, it can be hard for an assailant to hit when it moves unpredictably and should easily create opportunities to disengage and flee.
Does the Peregrine provide storage space for the pilot's personal gear and weapons?
Yes, it features the same storage as the base Raven and Firebird.
