August 2024
Subscriber Promotions
Summer’s in full effect as we head toward a cargo deck’s worth of exciting releases and events, including our annual battle to crown the community’s favorite in-game vehicle. To welcome back Ship Showdown, this month’s Flair is a cuddly in-game version of last year’s winner, the mighty Drake Corsair.
August’s Ships of the Month are two industrial stalwarts, Argo’s RAFT and SRV – perfect for putting in a shift or two while we finalize the upcoming patch.
Drake Interplanetary Corsair Plushie
- This soft plushie is modeled after the Drake Interplanetary Corsair, a versatile explorer and coincidentally, the reigning Ship Showdown 2953 champion.
- Current Centurion-level Subscribers get this item as part of their subscriptions.
Ornate Drinking Gourd
- Made from a calabash gourd, this spherical drinking vessel fits warmly in the hand and features intricate metal latticework detailing.
- Current Imperator-level Subscribers get this item and the above Centurion-level item as part of their subscriptions.
Handmade Glazed Mug
- This slab-built pottery mug with ridged detailing was crafted by hand and finished with a speckled glaze.
- This item is available for all Subscribers to pledge for in the Subscriber-Exclusive Store.
NOT A SUBSCRIBER?
If you would like to receive this flair as part of a subscription, you can subscribe before August 12, 2024 (20:00 UTC).
If you subscribe after August 12, you can pick up these and previous months’ flair (going back to 2014) in the Subscriber-exclusive store.
Subscriber-Exclusive Store
Centurion Subscribers: Argo RAFT (with 12-month insurance)
Argo RAFT: Focused on serious cargo shuttling, the Argo RAFT accommodates three 32-SCU cargo containers, making it perfect for both long-range hauling excursions and local deliveries to landing zones and outposts.
Imperator Subscribers: Argo SRV & Argo RAFT (with 24-month insurance)
Argo SRV: A specialized recovery ship designed to leave no one behind. Whether saving stranded souls from the depths of space or retrieving lost cargo, the SRV is the go-to ship for anyone serious about recovery.
Argo RAFT: Focused on serious cargo shuttling, the Argo RAFT accommodates three 32-SCU cargo containers, making it perfect for both long-range hauling excursions and local deliveries to landing zones and outposts.
MERCHANDISE DISCOUNT
Two continuous discount levels are available to all Subscribers in the Merch
Store. Centurion Subscribers receive a 10% off discount, while Imperator
Subscribers receive 15% off. Take advantage of this perk and peruse the
selection of available merchandise including jackets, hoodies, shirts, mugs,
hats, mousepads, posters, stickers, and more. Check out the now.
Merchandise Store
SUBSCRIBER STORE
All previous flair items going back to 2014 are available to pledge in the
Subscriber Store. You can fill in any gaps, pick up store-only items, or
grab extras to gift to non-Subscribers from the My Hangar section of your
RSI profile.
Subscriber Store
