September 2024
Subscriber Promotions
It’s a pirate’s life for Subscribers throughout September! Give your hangar a warm, homely ambience with the new Salvaged Skull themed furniture, beautifully embellished with a tasteful skull to set an inviting tone for visitors.
September’s Ship of the Month is the miniature marauder, the tiny terror, the diminutive destroyer, the one and only Mirai Fury! Gather your gang and swarm Stanton today.
Salvaged Skull Lounge Chair
- Ripped out of a busted ship and ready for lounging, this former cockpit seat has been tagged with a vivid skull print to make for an aggressive seating addition to your hideout.
- Current Centurion-level Subscribers get this item as part of their subscriptions.
Salvaged Skull Couch
- Why risk your reputation as a serious outlaw by sitting on anything but the most hardcore of couches? Featuring hand-printed skulls and make-shift repairs, this couch will have your guests saying, “this person is definitely a criminal.”
- Current Imperator-level Subscribers get this item and the above Centurion-level item as part of their subscriptions.
Salvaged Skull Table
- From planning your next heist to high-stakes card games, this salvaged table featuring a large skull marking is the perfect place for gathering with your last known associates.
- This item is available for all Subscribers to pledge for in the Subscriber-Exclusive Store.
Salvaged Skull Parlor Set
- Entertain fellow scallywags, or let your enemies relax a bit before you mercilessly gut them with this complete set.
- This item is available for all Subscribers to pledge for in the Subscriber-Exclusive Store.
Salvaged Skull Clandestine Meeting Set
- Gather your most trusted cohorts around the table to plan your next move.
- This item is available for all Subscribers to pledge for in the Subscriber-Exclusive Store.
Salvaged Skull Relax to the Max Set
- With four chairs, a comfy sofa, and a table, you’ll be ready to entertain any size boarding party before making them all walk the plank.
- This item is available for all Subscribers to pledge for in the Subscriber-Exclusive Store.
Centurion Subscribers: Mirai Fury (with 12-month insurance)
Mirai Fury: Small but mighty, the Miria Fury is built for surprise attacks and swarming heavier fighters. While it sacrifices defense for speed and firepower, it hits hard and is gone before the enemy can react.
Imperator Subscribers: Mirai Fury Series (with 24-month insurance)
Mirai Fury, Fury LX, and Fury MX: Whether you’re bombarding targets or pushing for the podium, the Fury’s missile and racing variants excel at their specific roles without sacrificing the base version’s famed agility.
MERCHANDISE DISCOUNT
Two continuous discount levels are available to all Subscribers in the Merch
Store. Centurion Subscribers receive a 10% off discount, while Imperator
Subscribers receive 15% off. Take advantage of this perk and peruse the
selection of available merchandise including jackets, hoodies, shirts, mugs,
hats, mousepads, posters, stickers, and more. Check out the now.
Merchandise Store
SUBSCRIBER STORE
All previous flair items going back to 2014 are available to pledge in the
Subscriber Store. You can fill in any gaps, pick up store-only items, or
grab extras to gift to non-Subscribers from the My Hangar section of your
RSI profile.
Shop Now
NOT A SUBSCRIBER?
If you would like to receive this flair as part of a subscription, you can subscribe before September 9, 2024 (20:00 UTC). Otherwise, you can pick up these and previous months’ flair (going back to 2014) in the Subscriber-exclusive store.
Subscribe Now
