Ship Showdown Top 16 & Free Fly
After reviewing thousands of creative submissions and poring over extensive gameplay, flight, and drive-time data, the Ship Showdown Top 16 has been selected. Each day, two ships will step up and only one will live to fight another day. And here’s the kicker - it’s all decided by your daily votes in the Live Showdown.
Plus, take the Top 16 vehicles for a spin until August 22 in the Ship Showdown Free Fly. Each ship will also be available to pledge throughout the tournament!
Heavy Duty - Aegis Reclaimer
Equipped with a reinforced cargo bay, long-range jump drive, and launch pods for unmanned drones, the Reclaimer is the ideal ship for ripping apart deep-space wrecks. Tractor beams, floodlights, scanner options, and docking ports round out the tools on this capable, utilitarian spacecraft.
► Aegis Reclaimer
Heavy Duty - Drake Vulture
Answer to no one, cut out the middleman, and throw caution to the wind. Rip wrecks like a pro and carve out your own place in the great big empty behind the stick of this rough and rugged salvage machine from Drake Interplanetary.
► Drake Vulture
Speed Demons - Mirai Fury LX
Featuring best-in-class maneuverability and fully integrated Xi’an tech, the Fury is on the cutting edge of ship design. In pursuit of performance, the Fury LX racer sacrifices the base ship's offensive capabilities for additional maneuvering thrusters to help you cross the finish line first.
► Mirai Fury LX
Speed Demons - Origin M50
If you want to get from point A to point B as quickly as possible (and with as much style as possible), then the M50 is for you. Featuring supercharged engines to offset its tiny weapons loadout, the M50 goes extremely fast and looks incredible doing it. As Origin’s premier racing chassis, you shouldn’t expect anything less.
► Origin M50
Run & Gun - Anvil F8C Lightning
Few vehicles inspire the same awe as the legendary F8 Lightning. A true force to be reckoned with, it has protected Humanity countless times from serious threats at home and far from civilization.
► Anvil F8C Lightning
Run & Gun - Anvil F7C Hornet Mk II
Tame the power, speed, and offensive punch of the UEE Navy’s premier carrier-based fighter, made famous by its dominating role in the Vanduul war. Sporting a pair of daunting Size 4 Gatlings and a custom missile rack capable of delivering a devastating payload, it's easy to see why this heavy-hitter is a legend and mainstay of Naval operations.
► Anvil F7C Hornet Mk II
Pathfinder - Origin 890 Jump
With an elegant, sleek exterior that belies its spacious interior, the 890 Jump is a true engineering marvel; crafted to impress from every angle with its combination of innovative design, the finest materials, and the most advanced technology. The result is a vessel that is in a class all of its own.
► Origin 890 Jump
Pathfinder - Origin 600i Explorer
This multi-role luxury vessel features an exquisitely detailed hull that balances performance and versatility in a sleek and timeless form. Looking to stamp your name in history? The 600i Explorer swaps the lounge for a robust scanning station as well as additional utility hardpoints to further increase the ship's deep-space effectiveness.
► Origin 600i Explorer
Freighter - Crusader C1 Spirit
Crusader Industries brings its usual commitment to excellence directly to the civilian market with the C1 Spirit, a multi-purpose starship tuned for mid-range cargo delivery and courier work with enough versatility to tackle multiple roles and unpredictable jobs.
► Crusader C1 Spirit
Freighter - Crusader Mercury Star Runner
The Mercury checks all the boxes expected of a dependable courier vessel, and then some. If you need it there fast and unscathed, you can’t do better than the Mercury. Built with the same engineering and design principals that has made Crusader the go-to manufacturer for galactic transport on any scale, the Star Runner chassis sets new standards for data and cargo conveyance.
► Crusader Mercury Star Runner
Alien - Gatac Syulen
The Syulen cargo vessel has been artfully crafted by the renowned House Gatac to perfectly suit both Human and Xi’an pilots. With an agile frame, the Syulen lends itself to quickly ferrying important deliveries across the universe or as the ideal ship for those making their transport career debut.
► Gatac Syulen
Alien - Banu Defender
Meet the Banu Defender, a multi-crew fighter whose patchwork design highlights technology from a variety of species. Featuring modest accommodations for its crew and easy access to components, the Defender gets its name from the role it serves: the first line of defense against enemy attacks. That's why the Defender makes the ideal companion to the Merchantman: one to do the heavy hauling and the other to perform the deadly dogfighting.
► Banu Defender
Road Warrior - Greycat STV
Get ready to have some serious fun on the job with the STV from Greycat. This Sport Terrain Vehicle was built by pros for pros and features blazing speed and convenient built-in storage.
► Greycat STV
Road Warrior - RSI Ursa Medivac
A frontline medical support vehicle built to endure the harshest environments - a beacon of hope bringing you back into action with its state-of-the-art Tier 3 medical bed. An indispensable asset for any team facing unpredictable challenges.
► RSI Ursa Medivac
Underdog - Anvil Terrapin
Outfitted with long-range scanners and encased in heavy armor and oversized shields, the U4A-3 Terrapin can face potentially hazardous circumstances with confidence, making it the ultimate combat scout and reconnaissance vehicle, at least according to Anvil.
► Anvil Terrapin
Underdog - Anvil Gladiator
The civilian model of the Gladiator appeals to those that want explore the ‘Verse with a bit of added security. Supporting a maximum of two, the Gladiator is perfectly equipped to explore and fight with or without a wingman. The Civilian model allows pilots to choose between an extra cargo hold or a bomb bay.
► Anvil Gladiator
