October 2024
Subscriber Promotions
Spooky season is here, both in and out of the ‘verse, so embrace the terror with this month’s stomach-churning flair!
And you’ll be safe from marauding trick-or-treaters in October’s Ship of the Month, the versatile Drake Cutter. Take on the scariest missions thanks to its tough exterior and comprehensive defensive loadout.
Killer Creature Double Feature
- Snag movie posters for classic splatterfest Parasite (back in a special edition with a few new surprises), and the infamous fright flick Blood Bank, and make sure no one staying over at your hangar ever sleeps again.
- Current Centurion-level Subscribers get this item as part of their subscriptions.
Kastak Arms Brimstone Custodian SMG
- The "Brimstone" special edition of this classic sub machine gun features a bold red top-trim and a dark gray finish on the lower half of the weapon.
- Current Imperator-level Subscribers get this item and the above Centurion-level item as part of their subscriptions.
The Hill Horror Reborn Movie Poster
- Neville Lott returns… again? Your friends will lose their heads over this delightfully distasteful one-sheet.
- This item is available for all Subscribers to pledge for in the Subscriber-Exclusive Store.
Kastak Arms Brimstone Devastator Shotgun
- The "Brimstone" special edition of this powerful shotgun features a bold red top-trim and a dark gray finish on the lower half of the weapon.
- This item is available for all Subscribers to pledge for in the Subscriber-Exclusive Store.
Centurion Subscribers: Drake Cutter (with 12-month insurance)
Drake Cutter: The Cutter embodies the spirit of Drake Interplanetary – tough, utilitarian, and capable of almost any task. Take on the ‘verse with this rugged allrounder throughout October.
Imperator Subscribers: Drake Cutter Series (with 24-month insurance)
Cutter: The Cutter embodies the spirit of Drake Interplanetary – tough, utilitarian, and capable of almost any task. Take on the ‘verse with this rugged allrounder throughout October.
Cutter Rambler, Cutter Scout: The Rambler and Scout take the versatile Cutter chassis and focus it toward scanning and expedition respectively. Support a fleet or embrace the wilderness all month long.
MERCHANDISE DISCOUNT
Two continuous discount levels are available to all Subscribers in the Merch
Store. Centurion Subscribers receive a 10% off discount, while Imperator
Subscribers receive 15% off. Take advantage of this perk and peruse the
selection of available merchandise including jackets, hoodies, shirts, mugs,
hats, mousepads, posters, stickers, and more. Check out the now.
Merchandise Store
SUBSCRIBER STORE
All previous flair items going back to 2014 are available to pledge in the
Subscriber Store. You can fill in any gaps, pick up store-only items, or
grab extras to gift to non-Subscribers from the My Hangar section of your
RSI profile.
Shop Now
NOT A SUBSCRIBER?
If you would like to receive this flair as part of a subscription, you can subscribe before October 7, 2024 (20:00 UTC). Otherwise, you can pick up these and previous months’ flair (going back to 2014) in the Subscriber-exclusive store.
Subscribe Now
