2024-10-11 11:00:22
MISSION-READY SHIPS
BREAKING NEWS
Pain RSI
SAVE STANTON
Breaking News
More disturbing reports out of Stanton as violent pirate
attacks on civilian and commercial vessels continue to
rock the system. Initial investigation points toward an
invasive criminal element, but the gang or gangs responsible
remain elusive, leaving local security outfits and Advocacy
task forces grasping at straws.
Stay Tuned In
For The Latest News and Updates
Stanton needs YOU
Take on a series of narratively rich missions in this massive in-game event - stave off unknown
attackers and get to the bottom of the mysterious wave of violence before it gets even worse.
Complete each mission before Alpha 4.0 launches to secure exclusive
Pyro laser repeaters:
- x2 S2 Pyro Laser Repeaters
- x2 S3 Pyro Laser Repeaters
Do you have what it takes to save Stanton?
For more details, including mission info and an FAQ,
check out the Save Stanton Spectrum Guide.
## LASTEST NEWS: As It Happens
Chaos in the Spacelanes
An unknown criminal outfit continues to sow unrest in the Stanton system, attacking civilian transports and populated stations. As the death toll rises, local authorities remain stumped. Keep it here for the latest on these brutal attacks.
Violent Crime continues to plague Citizens of Stanton
Even as local security details have identified the perpetrators of Stanton’s recent rash of attacks as a gang calling themselves the Slicers, deadly shootouts have been reported at several planetary outposts that seem at least tangentially linked. Meanwhile Slicer assets have been located at camps around Stanton. The CDF have been dispatched to remedy the situation. Stay tuned for more as this story continues to unfold.
Space Battle Causes Local Delays
A reported-stolen Idris corvette along with a small cadre of ships have been spotted causing mayhem in several locations, causing impromptu space battles and major disruptions as local security forces and civilian militia alike rush to combat the menace.
Protestors Clash as Attacks Continue
The recent series of attacks and disruptions orchestrated and perpetrated by the Slicer gang, a criminal outfit with little-to-no prior presence in Stanton, have sparked debate amongst the locals. With the gang in question presumably hailing from the neighboring Pyro system, long thought to be a lawless haven for outlaws and reprobates, several local Citizens groups are set for an ideological clash. A group of concerned civilians calling themselves the Frontier Fighters is ready to take the fight through the Jump Point, while Citizens for Prosperity says “not so fast!”, attempting to avoid the criminal profiling of an entire star system.
With all the unrest, the CDF are prepared to offer extra rewards to those who volunteer.
