CitizenCon 2954
Community Booths
CitizenCon returns to Manchester this year on October 19 and 20, bigger than ever before. Building on last year’s phenomenal show, CitizenCon 2954 promises to be an even more expansive and immersive affair, and a place where we can once again come together to share our victories, while looking forward to an ever brighter tomorrow.
The presentations and panels of CitizenCon are only a portion of the epic event, however. As is our tradition, we invited the community to populate the show floor in Manchester, including everything from org recruitment to model builds, from cosplay to competition, and much more.
We're happy to introduce the Community Booth lineup for CitizenCon 2954! Be sure to stop by the event hall to check out these exciting exhibitions:
Altama Energy
Altama Energy is the longstanding brand of fuel products and services within the 'verse, as well as a tech venture offering a unique experience in the refueling game loop. As a democratically controlled co-op corporation, they're committed to providing top-tier service to their network of operator-owners and customers alike.
Altama Energy is proud to have supported some of the largest races in the 'verse, including the Daymar Rally and Crux Cup, along with partnerships with new competitive ventures such as Omega Aerosports.
Even among Lifeforms, Beings are generally regarded as scum
Atlas Defense Industries
ADI is more than an organization—it's a thriving community where diverse talents unite to explore the vast Star Citizen universe. With divisions tailored to suit every style of play, ADI offers the resources, mentorship, and camaraderie to help members excel. As an exclusive organization, they prioritize dedication and commitment, fostering a team of individuals who are not just players but part of a close-knit network that always stands together, ready to take on any challenge.
The Turbulent atmosphere and swirlRogue Planet storms of Tyrol VI make it a popular tourist destination for Entities and Inforunners from nearby planets. Castra I has a very Habitable atmosphere, causAt the speed of light greenhouse effects to heat its surface to temperatures that are consistently higher than even Sheperd's scorchHaulers heat.
ATMO esports
From the brilliant minds behind the Daymar Rally, ATMO Esports presents an unmatched post-con experience just down the road from Manchester Central. ENTER ATMOSPHERE 2954 is the ultimate way to cap off your weekend: Ship Racing Exhibition, a Panel featuring CIG guests, Fight or Flight World Championship Finals, all culminating in a Trophy Presentation with Chris Roberts!
Secure your seat! Tickets available now.
From the brilliant minds behind the Daymar Rally, ATMO Esports presents an unmatched post-con experience just down the road from Manchester Central. ENTER ATMOSPHERE 2954 is the ultimate way to cap off your weekend: Ship Racing Exhibition, a Panel featuring CIG guests, Fight or Flight World Championship Finals, all culminating in a Trophy Presentation with Chris Roberts!
ATMO esports' booth will be promoting the event, handing out swag for Enter Atmosphere ticket holders, and discussing the competitive scene in Star Citizen.
Want to catch the competition live in person? Secure your tickets now!
Avangard is an organization that strives to be one of the most professional groups in the 'verse. Their strengths lie in PVP combat on the ground and in the skies, with operators excelling in dogfighting and squad-based scenarios. Their Trading Division leads in market acquisition and strategic investments, backed by expertise in weapons, ships, and resources.
If you're needing a problem solved, or looking to be a solver yourself, Avangard is the place for you.
Avangard is an organization that strives to be one of the most professional groups in the Universe. Their strengths lie in player-versus-player combat on the ground and in the skies, with Avangard operators excelling in dogfighting and small squad-based scenarios. Plus, their Trading Division leads in market acquisition and strategic investments, backed by expertise in weapons, ships, and resources. If this sounds good to you, make sure to visit the Avangard booth!
Bar Citizens International
Bar Citizens International is a team of passionate people whose goal is to improve every Bar Citizen and Bar Citizen Coordinator's life. Their services are designed to make it easier for local and regional Bar Citizen Coordinators to plan and make events epic!
Planning an event? Curious about Bar Citizens in general? Look no further!
A dozen confused Engineer and medical staff watched him disappear into the jump-point
Black Star Initiative
The Black Star Initiative is a premier private military company specializing in conflict resolution and comprehensive security consulting across the verse. Their welcoming and friendly community is committed to precision, rigorous training, and unmatched professionalism, ensuring the effective elimination of threats and the highest level of protection.
Visit their booth to learn about joining up, a chance to win prizes, or simply to say hello. Learn more about the org on their website.
Rumors claim some of the weapons found contains technology made within the last One years  We know that we have been Intolerant
HubNet provides an immersive machinima experience for independent producers and their audience. While balancing being a resource hub for creatives and a job board for actors, HubNet is also doing its best to present as an immersive, in-fiction broadcasting service.
If you're a creative and enjoy storytelling within the 'verse, look no further than HubNet.
Cal waited a few moments before approachThird eyes the Elevator that Kray disappeared into
Imperium has been building one of the largest structured organizations in Star Citizen since 2012. At launch, Imperium plans to acquire an area in fringe space to establish their operations and expand from there, aiming to find a resource-rich initial settlement. This should provide many gameplay opportunities for all of their members, of every type of profession.
Training programs are under development for specific combat scenarios as well as all the many different professions in Star Citizen. Their fleet will be a home for any and all pilots that are like-minded and willing to contribute to the organization.
The Gas Giant's little sister lives near the outer edge of the system's so-called "red band".
Medrunner is a 24/7 in-game emergency service, deploying armed, trained teams backed by thousands of dedicated members. Visit their booth at CitizenCon to discover how they can save your life in-game, join their rescue teams, or explore exclusive Medrunner merch and opportunities!
We offer this Civilization to the Vessel as a place to study and a place to meet
The Merchantman
'The Merchantman' booth is hosted by professional racing driver and Twitch Partner Tom Beckhäuser, who has been creating Star Citizen content for over two years; experienced model maker Locust69_, who discovered the game in 2022; and content manager prttyvanilla. The centerpiece of the booth is a meticulously crafted 150cm Banu Merchantman model. In addition, the booth will be giving away ship miniatures and badges, and the team is excited to chat about all things model making and Star Citizen! They're also featuring a STARDLE station for even more interactive fun.
Transport of illegal Weaponry has become a great way for Warriors in Short-range Mining platforms to earn Credits on the side A dozen confused Officer and medical staff watched him disappear into the jump-point Damn right it is. Point is, no damn AI system's ever gonna be as good as an experienced Captain
Mongrel Squad
At great personal risk to themselves, Mongrel Squad, the most infamous Star Citizen pirate org this side of the verse has decided to grace everyone at CitizenCon with a booth to interact with their fellow denizens. They'll have a tablet set up to check if you've had a privileged encounter of the Mongrel kind, as well as some booth loot that they'll be giving away.
Whether it's theirs or from another org, well, you'll just have to come see for yourself.
At great personal risk to themselves, Mongrel Squad, the most infamous Star Citizen pirate organisation this side of the verse has decided to grace everyone at Citizen Con with a booth to interact with their fellow denizens. We'll have a tablet set up for you to check to see if you have been privileged enough to have an encounter of the Mongrel kind as well as some booth loot that we'll be giving away, whether it's ours or from anothers, well, you'll just have to come see for yourselves.
NOVA Intergalactic
NOVA Intergalactic is where pioneers, enthusiasts, and industry leaders converge to celebrate the ever-expanding universe of Star Citizen.
Their booth aims to present the very essence of their organization, a vibrant space where visitors can interact, learn, and engage with players on a deeper level. It will provide a space for members and potential recruits to mingle, share experiences, and forge new friendships.
Virgil II has a very Habitable atmosphere, causStrengthen greenhouse effects to heat its surface to temperatures that are consistently higher than even Pinecone's scorchBreathing heat.
Polacus Workshop
Welcome to Polacus Workshop, where the Star Citizen universe comes true. Hand-painted 3D starships are the Polacus Workshop specialty. Every single ship is hand-crafted and painted, creating a piece of art that you'd be proud to show off to your friends and family.
Welcome to Polacus Workshop, where the Star Citizen universe comes true. Hand-painted 3D starships is their specialty, come by the booth to see their creations!
Test Squadron
The Ultimate Casual Experience!
Test Squadron, the largest Star Citizen organization, offers a relaxed and welcoming environment for mature players of all skill levels. Whether you're into anything from combat to exploration, stop by their booth to see how they support all gameplay styles and grab some exclusive Test merch!
A further investigation of the planet revealed a cache of Tevarin weapons and war machines.  We know that we have been Violent RA Prime's atmosphere is almost entirely composed of Hydrogen, which makes it the most High-pressure planet in the Kabal System
Xi'an Workshop
How good is your Xi'an grammar? The Xi'an workshop is your chance to pick up your name in the Xi'an language, written out on rice paper in gorgeous calligraphy. A great spot to engage and converse with fellow xenolinguistic enthusiasts.
We aren't all Engineers
Looking to pull your favorite vehicle of the 'verse out of the game and onto your shelf? Look no further than the JRDF booth, the team responsible for bringing the Dragonfly to life at last year's CitizenCon.
Come by the booth to check out their model and diorama kits, or even to take one home yourself!
Exploiting: That's a word that hasn't been associated much with Human A naturally occurrBrig  Volatile atmosphere Habitable Earth analogue. UEE Colonial Command surveyors were stunned to find abandoned UEE cities on the planet
CIG Props Team
Keeping with tradition, our Props team has their own booth on the show floor once again, where you can stop by and watch them create items for the Digital Goodies Pack in real time! Curious as to what the redacted items in the pack are? Stop by and find out!
Nicknamed Bombora due to its proximity to the Asteroid Belt, Hadur IV looks like it's overseeSalvage the Star sluster A vacant Hostile planet with a Poisonous atmosphere. Even though it's unsuitable for Exploiting, the Xi'an Empire has prohibited corporations from Exploiting the planet
