November 2024
Subscriber Promotions
No sooner than we’ve waved goodbye to CitizenCon for another year, we’re getting ready for the biggest ship show in the ‘verse. That’s right, the Intergalactic Aerospace Expo (IAE) begins later this month on November 22nd!
To help you make the trip to New Babbage, all subscribers get a month with the Crusader Spirit – the perfect all-rounder to get you there safely. This month’s flair is a collection of comfy décor to spruce up your tired old hangar and rest easy after a busy day at the convention center.
Twenty-Sided Die Ship Manufacturers
- When you have too many choices in your hangar, this fun novelty die is a great way to decide what to pilot. Rolled along a surface, this twenty-sided die will display the logo of a ship manufacturer or the Intergalactic Aerospace Expo. If you get the IAE logo, we suggest taking your newest vehicle out for a ride.
- Current Centurion-level Subscribers get this item as part of their subscriptions.
Crusader Accent Chair
- Styled after the seats aboard the Crusader Starlifter, this grey and white accent chair is a fantastic way to show your love of space travel even when staying at home.
- Current Imperator-level Subscribers get this item and the above Centurion-level item as part of their subscriptions.
RSI Accent Chair
- Styled after the seats aboard the RSI Constellation Phoenix, this grey and white accent chair is fantastic way to show your love of space travel even when staying at home.
- This item is available for all Subscribers to pledge for in the Subscriber-Exclusive Store.
Anvil Accent Chair
- Styled after the seats aboard the Anvil Carrack, this grey and white accent chair is fantastic way to show your love of space travel even when staying at home.
- This item is available for all Subscribers to pledge for in the Subscriber-Exclusive Store.
Chair Affair Pack
- Show your love of space travel even when staying at home with this trio of accent chairs, each modeled after an iconic starship interior: Crusader Starlifter, RSI Constellation Phoenix, and the Anvil Carrack
- This item is available for all Subscribers to pledge for in the Subscriber-Exclusive Store.
Centurion Subscribers: C1 Spirit (with 12-month insurance)
Crusader C1 Spirit: Though a consummate all-rounder, the C1 Spirit focuses on delivery. Travel anywhere in the universe and pick up delivery jobs on the way thanks to its generous 64 SCU cargo capacity.
Imperator Subscribers: Crusader A1 and C1 Spirit (with 24-month insurance)
Crusader A1 Spirit: The A1 Spirit drops the cargo capacity for a devasting bomb payload. Take on the dangers of the universe or defend yourself with a deadly complement of S5 bombs and S3 missiles.
Crusader C1 Spirit: Though a consummate all-rounder, the C1 Spirit focuses on delivery. Travel anywhere in the universe and pick up delivery jobs on the way thanks to its generous 64 SCU cargo capacity.
MERCHANDISE DISCOUNT
Two continuous discount levels are available to all Subscribers in the Merch
Store. Centurion Subscribers receive a 10% off discount, while Imperator
Subscribers receive 15% off. Take advantage of this perk and peruse the
selection of available merchandise including jackets, hoodies, shirts, mugs,
hats, mousepads, posters, stickers, and more. Check out the now.
Merchandise Store
SUBSCRIBER STORE
All previous flair items going back to 2014 are available to pledge in the
Subscriber Store. You can fill in any gaps, pick up store-only items, or
grab extras to gift to non-Subscribers from the My Hangar section of your
RSI profile.
Shop Now
NOT A SUBSCRIBER?
If you would like to receive this flair as part of a subscription, you can subscribe before November 11, 2024 (20:00 UTC). Otherwise, you can pick up these and previous months’ flair (going back to 2014) in the Subscriber-exclusive store.
Subscribe Now
