Secure Yours Now
In this dimension
Energy crates
Quantum drive
BACK to RSI
MISC Starlancer Max
Starlancer MAX
By MISC
The Starlancer series has arrived, a versatile transport chassis built specifically for deep-space operations, giving you the dependability you expect from MISC and the flexibility you need in an ever-changing universe.
Designed to carry huge payloads, the MAX variant allows you to go big with a massively expansive cargo deck.
Is the Starlancer MAX a bigger version of the Freelancer MAX? What are the major improvements, or what are the differences?
Calling the Starlancer MAX the bigger brother of the Freelancer MAX wouldn't be a stretch. In almost all categories, the Starlancer is a step up, whether we’re talking about weapons, defense, or amenities.
What is the maximum number of SCU that the Starlancer MAX can transport?
The Starlancer MAX currently has a total capacity of 224 SCU - 96 SCU in the rear and 128 SCU in the MAX-specific cargo hold.
Can you tell us about the available storage for weapons, gear, and small vehicles?
The Starlancer MAX is designed to have most things you’ll need when out and about in the ‘verse doing deliveries. For example, there is a dedicated armory as well as space specifically for a ground vehicle, such as an Ursa rover, to make planet-side travel easier.
What is the firing arc of the rear top, backward-facing turret?
Both turrets have a 180° rotational arc with a maximum pitch of 80° all the way around.
With 224 SCU of storage, what are the capabilities of the Starlancer MAX to defend itself and its precious cargo?
The Starlancer MAX comes with an array of features to safely transport goods from A to B, including:
- Pilot-controlled twin-linked S4 guns
- 2x S4 remote dual turrets
- 16x S3 missiles
- 1x S3 shield generator
Is there a multi-function display (MFD) to help with docking and landing such a massive ship?
Not yet, though the teams are still interested in creating an MFD for landing.
What sets the MISC Starlancer MAX apart from other cargo haulers, like the RSI Constellation Taurus and MISC Hull C?
The Starlancer MAX falls between these two. It carries more cargo than the Taurus without having to sacrifice its vehicle storage, though it is less equipped for combat. However, it carries less cargo and is better armed compared to the Hull C.
MISC usually likes to draw inspiration from the Xi’an. Does the Starlancer MAX offer anything tied to alien tech or design?
The Starlancer looks back to MISC’s roots and ships like the Freelancer, so it has taken very little inspiration or design cues from Xi'an this time around.
How many players are required to efficiently fly the Starlancer MAX?
Depending on how quickly you want to be able to work or defend yourself, we recommend four people to operate it efficiently.
Does it have VTOL?
Does the Starlancer MAX offer integrated tractor beams?
The Starlancer MAX does not have an integrated tractor beam.
Optimization and speed are everything when it comes to cargo hauling. What are the ship’s top speed and range?
The Starlancer MAX’s top speed is currently 950. For the range, its archetype is great for traveling long ranges compared to ships of similar sizes.
What amenities does the Starlancer MAX have?
Being the next evolution of the Freelancer, it of course makes improvements to amenities. Each of the four crew have their own sleeping quarters and bathroom. They also have a shared common room and kitchen area as well as a shared armory toward the front of the ship near the docking collar.
