CitizenCon 2954 Referral Bonus
Get a HoverQuad for free!
CitizenCon 2954 Referral Bonus
Cruise into CitizenCon 2954 in style with our latest referral bonus.
Everyone that brings a new pilot into the ‘verse by October 31 at 20:00 UTC will get a Consolidated Outland HoverQuad with Copperhead paint for free along with the usual referral rewards. Just make sure your friend uses your referral code when they create their account.
What is the referral bonus?
The referral bonus gives you free gear, items, or ships for introducing new players to Star Citizen. This time, you and the players you refer get a Consolidated Outland HoverQuad with Copperhead paint. The bonus is granted when a new player uses your referral code and pledges for a starter pack or ship (minimum $40) on the Pledge Store.
The usual referral bonuses apply too, including 5000 aUEC and a point in the regular Referral Program.
This bonus promotion runs until October 31, 20:00 UTC, so don’t miss out!
How do I refer a friend?
Your friends must add your personal referral code when creating their accounts. This is crucial, as the code CANNOT be added after the account is created.
Where do I find my personal referral code?
You can find it on the Referral Program Page. Your Referral Code is unique and can be shared anywhere you like, including on social media, via email, or on your website.
What’s in it for me?
Recruiting one friend during the promotion gets you the Consolidated Outland HoverQuad, the perfect vehicle for adventurers looking to explore the most savage of terrain in comfort and style. State-of-the-art gravlev engines provide the smoothest ride in the game, and the on-board storage ensures you're properly equipped for any excursion. This reward also includes the Copperhead paint. The player you refer during the promotion will also receive a Consolidated Outland HoverQuad.
Can I earn more than one HoverQuad during this promotion?
No. Only one Consolidated Outland HoverQuad can be earned per player.
What is the regular Referral Program?
The regular Referral Program empowers you to become a driving force behind the growth of the Star Citizen community. Plus, you’ll unlock cool in-game rewards, from exclusive hangar items to ships. The Referral Program Page details everything currently available.
When do I receive my referral reward?
The existing player will receive their reward immediately once the new player they are referring pledges for a starter pack or ship (minimum $40) on the Pledge Store. The new player's reward will be granted after the promotion ends on October 31, 2024. Rewards may be distributed in waves, so if you don't see it show up right away, it should populate soon.
Are there any limitations to the referral reward?
The Consolidated Outland HoverQuad given out as a referral reward includes LTI and is non-meltable and non-giftable.
Do the standard Referral Program and the limited CitizenCon 2954 Referral Bonus work together?
Yes. All referrals gained during the bonus period go towards your total in the standard Referral Program.
Where can I find more information on the Referral Program?
Click here to check out our regular referral program.
Click here to find the Referral Program FAQ.
