MISSION-READY SHIPS
GET MISSION READY
Pain RSI
FIGHT FOR PYRO
## Fight for Pyro
Chaos reigns in Pyro, with the recent attack on neighboring Stanton only exacerbating the tension. As prominent factions like Citizens for Prosperity and the Headhunters fight to gain control of the system, Stanton’s Frontier Fighters plan to end the Pyro threat once and for all…
CITIZENS FOR
PROSPERITY
Putting Pyro First
Pyro can and must be saved. We know that the good in Pyro far outweighs the
bad and are dedicated to giving its people a peaceful life, driving out the gangs
that threaten our survival and showing the rest of the ‘verse the Humanity in our
system.
Pyro is our home, and together, we can be its salvation.
Your Unfriendly Neighbourhood Outlaws
Sure, we steal stuff. Sure, we deal drugs. But at least we’re honest about it.
Pyro’s real problem is the amateurs who don’t know how to break the law like
upstanding criminals. They’re the ones bringing Stanton to our door and these
mad extremists down on our heads.
These Frontier Fighters need destroying, and luckily,
we love a good fight.
FRONTIER FIGHTERS
Kill Them. Kill Them All
We’re fighting the real battle that no one else has the stomach for. We’ve tried to
reason with these bleeding hearts and lawbreakers but they refuse to see
reason. Citizens for Prosperity’s noble mission is a joke - Pyro is a lost cause.
The only way to save this system is to wipe
clean the filth and start again.
Pick Your Battles
After the near-devastating pirate attacks in Stanton, the blame placed on Pyro is
tearing the red system apart. Choose between three factions, Citizens for
Prosperity, Frontier Fighters, or Headhunters, to determine your campaign
path and even your rewards. Choose your allegiance wisely, as once you
complete your first mission, you’ll be locked in.
Complete Fight for Pyro before the launch of Alpha 4.0.2 to cinch an exclusive Pyro-themed Ripper SMG.
If you have previously completed Save Stanton (Chapter 1, all Phases) as well as Fight for Pyro (Chapter 2, Phase 1 & 2),
you will also receive a set of faction-specific ship liveries for the:
- Anvil C8R Pisces
- Anvil Carrack
- Drake Cutter
- RSI Zeus Mk II
Find more information on the missions, rewards, and an FAQ on the Fight for Pyro Spectrum post.
