FLY NOW
In this dimension
Energy crates
Quantum drive
BACK to RSI
Crusader Intrepid
by Crusader Industries
Now that Crusader Industries has made its debut on the starter-ship scene, we posed a few questions to the Vehicle team about the new light freighter.
Here are the answers, straight from the designers themselves.
What prompted the naming of the ship "Intrepid?"
Since this is a starter cargo ship, we imagined the enterprising spirit of someone starting up a new transport business in the 'verse and thought that ‘Intrepid’ captured their plucky, adventurous attitude. Also, in its favor was the fact that there have been numerous real-life vessels with the designation ‘Intrepid’, which gave the name authenticity.
We have a lot of starter ships already in the game, why choose to make another?
Starter ships are a major gateway into the game, so we want to make sure that there is a wide range of options to allow new citizens to play the way they want to from the beginning, even if their decision purely revolves around a preferred manufacturer or aesthetics.
How versatile is the Intrepid? Is it better suited for any particular type of gameplay (exploration, light combat, delivery)?
The Intrepid leans more into the delivery role than the other starters, as it has eight SCU of cargo and three slots for delivery boxes.
How well does this ship support a new player’s journey, from starting missions to mid-game?
As this ship gives players more cargo space, it allows them to make a little more money on each cargo trip. Over time, this will add up and help them progress in their careers.
What are the Intrepid's advantages and disadvantages compared to the other starters in its class?
The Intrepid is designed to push cargo gameplay a little further than the alternatives, making it ideal for anyone who wants to focus on that career from the start.
It looks like the Intrepid has two cargo lifts in place of a cargo ramp. What does loading cargo onto the ship look like?
Rather than having to bring boxes through the ship and put them into the cargo bay, the bays extend down to the floor, allowing them to be loaded quickly. They can also be accessed from the interior.
What are the dimensions and capacity of the cargo lifts? Can the Intrepid carry a ground vehicle?
Each lift is designed to hold 4 SCU in a 1x4 configuration. The lifts are not designed to hold vehicles.
Can a player enter the ship via the cargo lift?
Yes, there are buttons on the inside of the cargo hold to let players enter the ship.
Does the side entrance also act as a docking collar?
The side entrance is just a staircase - the Intrepid doesn’t have a docking collar.
What are the Intrepid's living amenities like, and are there any unique or standout interior features?
The Intrepid comes with all the essentials for spending long periods in space, including bathroom facilities, a food processor, a bed, a dedicated suit locker and an ample weapon rack for a single player.
For those wondering what ships the Intrepid might be able to fit inside of, how big is it?
The Crusader Intrepid is 23.3 meters long, 20.3 meters wide, and 6.2 meters high. It is not specifically designed to fit inside any other ship.
How does this ship handle? How agile is this ship in space combat or when evading attacks?
Among the starter ships, the Intrepid has remarkable flight and handling capabilities (like other ships in the Crusader family).
Does the Intrepid perform better in certain environments (space vs atmospheric flight)?
The Intrepid delivers solid flight performance in both zero-g and atmospheric environments, offering the perfect experience for new pilots.
What are its defensive capabilities and how does it fare in combat scenarios?
Without any defensive turrets and only being armed with a single primary S4 gun, combat is not the focus of the Intrepid. However, it has enough punch to help get itself out of trouble though is not suited to prolonged combat engagements.
Is the Intrepid's only Size 4 weapon bespoke, or can it be switched with other Size 4 weapons?
The size 4 weapon hardpoint is a generic weapon and the weapon can be swapped out.
How does the Intrepid's armor compare to other ships in its class?
Since combat is not the primary role of the ship, the Intrepid favors agility and avoidance rather than tanking hits.
How does the signature of the Intrepid compare to other starter ships when being scanned?
Compared to other spaceships in its category (and considering the standard loadout provided by the manufacturer), the Intrepid delivers average performance in its class.
