Secure Yours Now
In this dimension
Energy crates
Quantum drive
BACK to RSI
MISC Starlancer TAC
Starlancer TAC
By MISC
The Starlancer series has arrived, a versatile transport chassis built specifically for deep-space operations, giving you the dependability you expect from MISC and the flexibility you need in an ever-changing universe.
Following the concept release of the MISC Starlancer Tac, we took your community-voted questions to our designers to provide you with more information on the recently unveiled ship, designed to take serious threats head-on.
Can you please explain in more detail what the quad launchers and remote-operated missile turrets are?
The four bespoke S3 quad launchers are pilot-controlled missiles, which are found on each current variant of the Starlancer (TAC, MAX, BLD). The remote-operated missile turrets are currently exclusive to the Starlancer TAC. These are controlled by the copilot and are located either side of the rear ramp. The angle of the images on the promo page makes it difficult to see, however, in-game, they have good coverage.
Can you please describe the firing arcs of each turret?
The top two turrets have a full 180° arc, with the rear one raising up when in use to give better angles. However, both leave the underside a little more vulnerable. The Starlancer TAC has additional coverage, with the rear remote missile turrets covering the rear and lower section from behind, with the side turrets giving lower underside covering arcs.
Do any of the TAC’s turrets have an overlapping firing arc?
The top two turrets have some overlap in their firing arcs. The TAC’s side turrets won’t overlap due to their placement on opposite sides of the hull.
What does "2x Size 4 Twin-linked Weapon" actually mean? Is that 4x S4 weapons or bespoke weapons equivalent to 2x S4 weapons?
This refers to hardpoints that have multiple weapons mounted to them. In this instance, the pilot controls two hardpoints, each with two Size 4 weapons. Similar examples can be seen on the Freelancer and Starfarer.
Will the Starlancer’s computer capacity allow for the two dorsal remote turrets to be bladed?
Yes. The current intention is to allow the Starlancer TAC’s computer to have the capacity for ‘AI blades,’ though this is subject to development of the AI blades system and implementation in-game.
What armor does the TAC have compared to other vessels of its size, and what countermeasures does it have?
The Starlancer TAC is designed to have a far more combat-focused role than the BLD or MAX, so will have better armor to reflect that (subject to in-game balancing). Currently, there are no plans to change its countermeasures beyond that of the other variants.
How will the marines leave the Starlancer TAC? Are there crew-controlled mounted Gatling guns protecting their drop?
The side doors open to give the marines the opportunity to drop from the side, similar to the Valkyrie, with door guns laying down covering fire.
Is the left container an ammunition feeder? If so, could it be recharged from inside of the ship? (Image below)
These are purely visual storytelling. In the future, on larger ships, you’ll be able to re-arm ballistics from within the ship via the equivalent of mini freight elevators.
Does it actually come with a Fury or just a Fury-sized hangar for snub fighters? Also, can any other snubs fit this hangar? What are the dimensions of the snub hangar?
The hangar is specifically designed to fit a Fury rather than a set metric, similar to the hangar on the Anvil Carrack being designed for the C8X Pisces. The standard Starlancer TAC does not come as standard with any Fury variant.
Does the TAC come with a specific hangar for ground vehicles? Will the rear access ramp work as a vehicle hangar, or can we store additional vehicles in the cargo area?
The Starlancer TAC features the same rear access ramp and storage space as the Starlancer BLD and MAX. On all variants, the ramp is large enough to accommodate a Tumbril Storm.
Does the TAC’s cargo space also come with a ground lift like with the MAX variant?
The Starlancer TAC’s lower middle section is significantly different to the MAX, as the cargo hold has been replaced by additional turrets, drop seats, and medical facilities. The only designated cargo storage on the TAC is in the rear hold. However, when the cargo grids are full, there is still space for an Ursa rover between them.
Can we further modify the TAC to support bounty hunting or pirate gameplay? For example, will we be able to replace the turret weapons with tractor beams, or does the ship have the ability to carry prisoner pods?
The Starlancer TAC is not a modular ship, so alterations cannot be made to support other gameplay loops. In addition, the turrets are ‘weapon mounts’ rather than ‘utility mounts,’ so they can only be equipped with weapons.
Compared to ships of similar size, the Starlancer TAC seems to be very slow. Can you tell us why you went for that low max speed?
The TAC is slower compared to dedicated combat ships of the same size due to the Starlancer platform initially being designed for cargo hauling. However, this robust and sturdy frame is better at absorbing incoming fire than similar-sized ships.
The stats provide no concrete size for the jump drive’s fuel tank. Can you give us the specific size for this deep-space ship?
The Starlancer series offers a respectable Quantum fuel capacity, surpassing that of smaller multi-role ships like the Zeus or Spirit. However, due to its more compact frame, it doesn’t match the long-range autonomy of larger competitors such as the Hercules or Caterpillar.
The Starlancer TAC, tailored for combat scenarios, features a slightly reduced fuel capacity compared to its cargo and industrial variants (like the Starlancer MAX for example), to accommodate other military systems (effective as of Alpha 4.2.0).
How many entry/exit points are there? Does the TAC have dorsal access, such as a ladder exit to the outside on top of the ship or a ladder on the walls of the Fury hangar? We need the means to climb up there to do repairs on the ship if we are planet-side.
The Starlancer TAC comes with several different entrance and exit points: the rear ramp, front lift, side jump doors, docking collar, and Fury hangar doors.
Is there a docking collar?
Yes. Each Starlancer variant features a small docking collar toward the front (just outside the armory).
