December 2024
Subscriber Promotions
Farewell, 2954! We’re celebrating the end of the year with Luminalia before sending brave citizens out into the Pyro system for an entirely new adventure.
The December Vehicle of the Month will help you blend in with the outlaws and criminals, while the flair will keep you safe as you descend into the new contested zones and ensure you look the part on the Ruin Station landing pads.
Plus, save big on annual subscription passes! For a limited time, get 10% off the 1 Year Access Pass for both Centurion and Imperator levels. Renew your subscription today and take advantage of this special holiday offer.
Kastak Arms Sawtooth ‘Sunspike’ Combat Knife
- The classic Kastak Arms Sawtooth combat knife is a personal protection classic. The ‘Sunspike’ version features a rusted look to match the worn aesthetic of Pyro's long-abandoned space stations.
- Current Centurion-level Subscribers get this item as part of their subscriptions.
Drake Cutter - Dying Star Paint
- Sold in 2943 to celebrate the 450th anniversary of Pyro's discovery, the Dying Star paint is tan with brown and black highlights. This version has been modified from its original form with the addition of graffiti.
- Current Imperator-level Subscribers get this item and the above Centurion-level item as part of their subscriptions.
Drake Cutlass - Dying Star Paint
- Sold in 2943 to celebrate the 450th anniversary of Pyro's discovery, the Dying Star livery is tan with brown and black highlights. This version has been modified from its original form with the addition of graffiti.
- This item is available for all Subscribers to pledge for in the Subscriber-Exclusive Store.
Dying Star - Drake Paint Pack
- Sold in 2943 to celebrate the 450th anniversary of Pyro's discovery, the Dying Star livery is tan with brown and black highlights. This version has been modified from its original form with the addition of graffiti. Includes paints for the Drake Cutter, Cutlass, Corsair, and Vulture.
- This item is available for all Subscribers to pledge for in the Subscriber-Exclusive Store.
Centurion Subscribers: Drake Cutlass Black (with 12-month insurance)
Drake Cutlass Black: Take on or join the pirates of Pyro with the perfect ship for outlaw activity. Ample storage space, Size 3 guns, and two missile launchers mean you can protect or pillage to your heart’s content.
Imperator Subscribers: MISC Starfarer and Drake Cutlass Black (with 24-month insurance)
MISC Starfarer: Support your fleet as you break through the jump point into Pyro. This heavyweight refueler has a huge cargo hold for supplies alongside the ability to refuel fighters and explorers in the most remote reaches of space.
Drake Cutlass Black: Take on or join the pirates of Pyro with the perfect ship for outlaw activity. Ample storage space, Size 3 guns, and two missile launchers mean you can protect or pillage to your heart’s content.
MERCHANDISE DISCOUNT
Two continuous discount levels are available to all Subscribers in the Merch
Store. Centurion Subscribers receive a 10% off discount, while Imperator
Subscribers receive 15% off. Take advantage of this perk and peruse the
selection of available merchandise including jackets, hoodies, shirts, mugs,
hats, mousepads, posters, stickers, and more. Check out the now.
Merchandise Store
SUBSCRIBER STORE
All previous flair items going back to 2014 are available to pledge in the
Subscriber Store. You can fill in any gaps, pick up store-only items, or
grab extras to gift to non-Subscribers from the My Hangar section of your
RSI profile.
Shop Now
NOT A SUBSCRIBER?
If you would like to receive this flair as part of a subscription, you can subscribe before December 9, 2024 (20:00 UTC). Otherwise, you can pick up these and previous months’ flair (going back to 2014) in the Subscriber-exclusive store.
Subscribe Now
