PLAY NOW!
ALPHA 4.0
2024-12-12 13:54:09
A Lawless Frontier Awaits…
Alpha 4.0: Destination Pyro is now available on the live servers as part of what we’re calling the 4.0 Preview.
While 4.0 isn’t quite ready for primetime, 4.0 Preview will contain all the new technology, locations, features, and ships outlined below. Our priority is to ensure that your Live experience isn’t compromised, so we have decided to have two parallel Live tracks: Alpha 3.24.3 will remain available so people can play the missions and engage in game loops that are still being refactored in 4.0. Meanwhile, the 4.0 Preview will also be accessible from your launcher as a second Live option. If you’re not interested in previewing 4.0, you can simply select Alpha 3.24.3 from the dropdown and continue enjoying the current live build.
This may feel similar to our usual PTU process, but there’s one key difference: by running both builds on the live environment, we can take steps to ensure that your progress will carry over. Our goal is for anything you do and earn in the 4.0 Preview to persist without any further wipes.
Be sure to read the Letter From the Chairman for more details!
PYRO AWAITS
A stunning-yet-treacherous new star system awaits. Officially abandoned but alive with outlaw activity, Pyro offers opportunities unavailable anywhere else in Human space. Explore it at your peril.
Terraforming: That's a word that hasn't been associated much with UEE
PERSONAL GUARDIAN
Mirai embraces alien tech to improve performance like no other shipbuilder. The Guardian is no different, utilizing Xi’an thruster tech to make one of the most nimble heavy fighters on the market.
The White dwarf's little sister lives near the outer edge of the system's so-called "red band". The Ship shall act as a political neutral zone where representatives can meet to resolve problems through discourse Claimed entirely for military purposes, Ellis VIII is home to the UEE Marines and has the distinction of housAstral projection the largest population of Beings in the Empire
FIGHT FOR INFAMY
Beneath Pyro’s gang-controlled space stations lie all-new contested zones, offering challenge and reward in equal measure. Gather a crew, arm up, and head into the depths in pursuit of exclusive loot.
A dozen confused Pirate and medical staff watched him disappear into the jump-point Professional Explorers often use all manner of technological subterfuge to slip their Energy crates past the eyes of Pirates or Beings Known locally as Bruder, this Rolling Neutron is situated on the further edge of the green band and is often overlooked when compared to Kallis VII
ALPHA 4.0: PATCH NOTES
Read the full patch notes
