January 2025
Subscriber Promotions
Happy New Year, Citizens! We're kicking off the new year with ships to help you survive the dangers of Pyro. All subscribers can tackle treacherous cargo runs in the legendary RSI Constellation Taurus, while Imperator subs can take down outlaws and more in the heavy-hitting Constellation Andromeda and Aquila variants.
The first flair of the year is a collection of classy interior décor to help you spruce up your ship or hangar for the new year.
Sand Nomad Plant Pot
- Inspired by traditional sand nomad pottery, the desert hues of this plant pot are evocative of the immense dunes of Leir III.
- Current Centurion-level Subscribers get this item as part of their subscriptions.
Bronze Mya Vase
- With subtle etched patterns and a brushed bronze finish, this artisanal vase emulates the original Mya vases used to store water during the planet's dry seasons.
- Current Imperator-level Subscribers get this item and the above Centurion-level item as part of their subscriptions.
Baltazar Stool
- Popularized by famed furniture designer Aldean Baltazar, the iconic Baltazar Stool has seen little iteration in its design since its inception fifty years ago.
- This item is available for all Subscribers to pledge for in the Subscriber-Exclusive Store.
Nomad Décor Pack
- Add a splash of Outsider flair to your ship or hangar with this collection featuring the Sand Nomad Plant Pot, Bronze Mya Vase, and Baltazar Stool.
- This item is available for all Subscribers to pledge for in the Subscriber-Exclusive Store.
Centurion Subscribers: Constellation Taurus (with 12-month insurance)
Constellation Taurus: An absolute classic in any configuration, the RSI Constellation has served the Empire and its people throughout millions of battles, deliveries, and expeditions. Haul big with the cargo-focused Taurus variant.
Imperator Subscribers: Constellation Andromeda, Aquila, and Taurus  (with 24-month insurance)
Constellation Andromeda and Aquila: Perfect for a trip into the lawless depths of Pyro, the Constellation Andromeda takes the trustworthy Connie chassis and adds more firepower, while the exploration-focused Aquila is outfitted for long trips into the unknown.
Constellation Taurus: An absolute classic in any configuration, the RSI Constellation has served the Empire and its people throughout millions of battles, deliveries, and expeditions. Haul big with the cargo-focused Taurus variant.
MERCHANDISE DISCOUNT
Two continuous discount levels are available to all Subscribers in the Merch
Store. Centurion Subscribers receive a 10% off discount, while Imperator
Subscribers receive 15% off. Take advantage of this perk and peruse the
selection of available merchandise including jackets, hoodies, shirts, mugs,
hats, mousepads, posters, stickers, and more. Check out the now.
Merchandise Store
SUBSCRIBER STORE
All previous flair items going back to 2014 are available to pledge in the
Subscriber Store. You can fill in any gaps, pick up store-only items, or
grab extras to gift to non-Subscribers from the My Hangar section of your
RSI profile.
Shop Now
NOT A SUBSCRIBER?
If you would like to receive this flair as part of a subscription, you can subscribe before January 13, 2025 (20:00 UTC). Otherwise, you can pick up these and previous months’ flair (going back to 2014) in the Subscriber-exclusive store.
Subscribe Now
