Lunar New Year 2025 Referral Bonus
To ring in a prosperous new year as part of the Red Festival, we're inviting you to join in our Lunar New Year 2025 Referral promotion! When you refer a friend, you can receive a Drake Dragonfly with Coalfire paint for free!
What is the referral bonus?
The referral bonus gives you free gear for getting new players into Star Citizen. This time, you and the players you refer get a Drake Dragonfly with Coalfire paint.
The bonus is granted when a new player uses your referral code and pledges for a starter pack or ship (minimum $40) on the Pledge Store.
The usual referral bonuses apply too, including 5000 aUEC and a point in the regular Referral Program.
This bonus promotion runs until February 17, 2025, 20:00 UTC.
How do I refer a friend?
Your friends must add your personal referral code when creating their accounts. This is crucial, as the code CANNOT be added after the account is created.
Where do I find my personal referral code?
You can find it on the Referral Program Page. Your Referral Code is unique and can be shared anywhere you like, including on social media, via email, or on your website.
What’s in it for me?
Recruiting one friend during the promotion gets you a Drake Dragonfly, the perfect snub ship for anyone looking to live on the edge. Dual-mode conversion allows the Dragonfly to operate on the ground or in space, and a rear-facing second seat means you can even take a passenger!
This reward also includes the Coalfire paint. The player you refer during the promotion will also receive a Drake Dragonfly with Coalfire paint.
What's in it for them?
The player you refer during the promotion will receive the same rewards as you receive for referring them. These include a Drake Dragonfly with Coalfire paint.
Can I earn more than one Drake Dragonfly?
No. Only one Drake Dragonfly can be earned per player.
What is the regular Referral Program?
The regular Referral Program empowers you to become a driving force behind the growth of the Star Citizen community. Plus, you’ll unlock cool in-game rewards, from exclusive hangar items to ships. The Referral Program Page details everything currently available.
When do I receive my referral reward?
The veteran player will receive their reward immediately once when the new player they are referring pledges for a starter pack or ship (minimum $40) on the Pledge Store. The new player's reward will be granted once the promotion ends on February 17. Rewards may be distributed in waves, so if you don't see it show up right away, it should populate soon.
Are there any limitations to the referral reward?
Yes. The Drake Dragonfly with Coalfire paint given out as a referral reward is non-meltable and non-giftable.
Do the standard Referral Program and the limited Lunar New Year 2025 Referral Bonus work together?
Yes. All referrals gained during the bonus period go towards your total in the standard Referral Program.
Where can I find more information on the Referral Program?
Click here to check out our regular referral program.
Click here to find the Referral Program FAQ.
