February 2025
Subscriber Promotions
Love is in the air, and that can only mean one thing: Coramor is back in the ‘verse. To set the mood, this month’s flair features a selection of romance-inspired décor that adds a splash of passion to your hangar.
If you’re more of a fighter than a lover, February’s Ships of the Month is the RSI Zeus Mk II series. Built to discover, reach, and conquer the most dangerous distant locations, it’s perfect for exploring the treacherous depths of Pyro.
Red Heart Plushie Cushion Set
- Huggable, lovable, and thoroughly squashable, this red heart plushie cushion will fill your heart with joy. This plush cushion set consists of a synthetic leather casing dyed with a passionate scarlet coloring.
- Current Centurion-level Subscribers get this item as part of their subscriptions.
Coramor '55 Loveseat
- Snuggle up this Coramor on this luxurious heart-shaped couch. Featuring a captivating crimson covering, the nano-woven fibers of this settee guarantee you'll stay comfortable all night long.
- Current Imperator-level Subscribers get this item and the above Centurion-level item as part of their subscriptions. This item will be delivered in an upcoming patch.
Heartseeker Double Bed
- With a luxurious bedspread featuring the iconic image of a spacesuit-clad pilot from the Anvil Hornet Heartseeker, this opulent bed is framed by a heart-shaped, red-velvet headboard.
- This item is available for all Subscribers to pledge for in the Subscriber-Exclusive Store.
Coramor 2955 Décor Pack
- Add a romantic look to your hangar with this décor pack, featuring four Red Heart Plushie Cushions, a Coramor ’55 Loveseat, and the Heartseeker Double Bed.
- This item is available for all Subscribers to pledge for in the Subscriber-Exclusive Store. The Coramor '55 Loveseat will be delivered in an upcoming patch.
Centurion Subscribers: Zeus Mk II ES (with 12-month insurance)
Zeus Mk II ES: Updated to exceed the expectations of modern space exploration, the Zeus Mk II takes the pioneering spirit of the original and brings it straight into the 30th century.
Imperator Subscribers: Zeus Mk II CL & ES  (with 24-month insurance)
Zeus Mk II CL: The upgraded Zeus, modified for hauling. With a vast internal cargo hold, the Mk II CL can transport vital cargo to the distant reaches of the Empire without significantly sacrificing weapons or defense.
Zeus Mk II ES: Updated to exceed the expectations of modern space exploration, the Zeus Mk II takes the pioneering spirit of the original and brings it straight into the 30th century.
MERCHANDISE DISCOUNT
Two continuous discount levels are available to all Subscribers in the Merch
Store. Centurion Subscribers receive a 10% off discount, while Imperator
Subscribers receive 15% off. Take advantage of this perk and peruse the
selection of available merchandise including jackets, hoodies, shirts, mugs,
hats, mousepads, posters, stickers, and more. Check out the now.
Merchandise Store
SUBSCRIBER STORE
All previous flair items going back to 2014 are available to pledge in the
Subscriber Store. You can fill in any gaps, pick up store-only items, or
grab extras to gift to non-Subscribers from the My Hangar section of your
RSI profile.
Shop Now
NOT A SUBSCRIBER?
If you would like to receive this flair as part of a subscription, you can subscribe before February 10, 2025 (20:00 UTC). Otherwise, you can pick up these and previous months’ flair (going back to 2014) in the Subscriber-exclusive store.
Subscribe Now
