Secure Yours Now
In this dimension
Energy crates
Quantum drive
BACK to RSI
by MISC
From your trusted partner in industrial pursuits comes the new MISC Fortune — a faster, smoother, more efficient ship for your salvaging needs.
We asked the Vehicle and Gameplay teams a few questions about MISC's dedicated solo Salvager. Here are the answers, straight from the devs themselves.
What is the quantum-fuel capacity of the Fortune, and how does it compare to the Vulture?
The MISC Fortune shares its fuel capacity with the Prospector series, as both ships utilize a similar hull and framework. When compared to the Drake Vulture, the Fortune boasts a larger quantum-fuel-storage capacity, enabling extended ranges for salvaging operations.
Does the Fortune's salvage arm function similarly to the Prospector’s mining arm? Does it retract or have other unique features?
Whilst similar in terms of both being a deployable and retractable arm, the key difference is the salvage head setup versus the mining head. The unique aspect of the Fortune are the two salvage ‘whiskers’ that deploy and retract with the arm, providing the additional fracturing functionality required to fully salvage ships.
Are there any differences in the interior layout or design of the Fortune compared to the Prospector?
The front section, with the cockpit, habitation, and bathroom, will be familiar to players, albeit it updated to modern functionality in terms of component access and other features. The Fortune adds two new rear interior rooms that are not featured in the Prospector - the salvage hallway/room with control access to the salvage filler stations and the rear cargo lift room with additional component access.
Currently, the Vulture can hold up to 39 SCU of salvage in its internal cargo. What is the maximum SCU capacity of the Fortune, including buffer?
From internal testing, we found that an additional 18 SCU can be placed in an unsecured manner within the ship itself. This is in addition to the 12 SCU external cargo grids, the small 4 SCU grid on the rear cargo lift, and the filler station’s internal buffer, which is currently 13 SCU.
Can the Fortune perform Structural Salvage?
The Fortune can perform Fracture and Structural Salvage, which is helped by its salvage whiskers. However, due to having a single salvage head, it does not have access to alternate scraping modes.
How does salvage gameplay differ between the Vulture and Fortune? What are the unique advantages of using a Fortune over a Vulture?
Thanks to its automatically loading side cargo grids, the Fortune emphasizes convenience over salvage speed. Without an Abrade salvage head by default, it will hull scrape at a lower rate than the Vulture.
What advantages does the Fortune offer compared to the Vulture, and how does it fit into the progression between the Vulture and the Reclaimer?
The component layout and performance between the Fortune and Vulture are very similar, so it’s more of an alternative than a step up, with the Fortune emphasizing convenience over speed.
The Drake Vulture includes some internal cargo space to store salvage, like weapons and modules. Will the Fortune have similar storage options for salvaged components that we have gather in the field?
The Fortune has a small internal 4x SCU cargo grid on its rear lift to store additional items.
Does the Fortune have VTOL capabilities?
Yes, just like the Prospector, the Fortune has togglable VTOL thrusters.
Are there any gameplay synergies between the Fortune and other salvage ships, like the Reclaimer, or is it intended to function as a more independent ship?
There is no specific synergy between the vehicles; the Fortune is designed as an independent solo salvage ship.
Can you place SCU on the external cargo grids, or is it dedicated to the RMC/CM generated by the ship?
SCU crates or other valid items can be placed on the external side grids. However, this will naturally prevent RMC crates generated by the ship from occupying that space.
How does the Fortune's operational speed compare to the Vulture in atmosphere and in space? Is it heavier or more agile?
Compared to the Vulture, the Fortune trades some speed and agility for greater hull strength. The Vulture maintains a handling advantage with higher SCM and NAV mode speeds, better linear acceleration, and overall improved handling.
