March 2025
Subscriber Promotions
March is upon us and with it comes Stella Fortuna, the UEE holiday that encourages participants to tempt fate. Luckily, the recent Alpha 4.0.2 release gives you plenty of opportunity to do just that with the new Supply or Die mission chain.
The Vehicle of the Month is the wild Tumbril Storm solo tank, designed to enhance your planet-side trips in pursuit of supplies. This month's Flair showcases a curated collection of accessories and gear inspired by Stella Fortuna.
Big Winner T-Shirt
- Featuring a stylized neon-green 'X' on the front and the phrase ‘Big Winner!’ on the back, when you wear this t-shirt, everyone will know you're going places.
- Current Centurion-level Subscribers get this item as part of their subscriptions.
Hazardous Cargo Chair
- Rest your weary legs after a long day of hauling dangerous materials with this unique chair, upcycled from a repurposed hazardous-cargo box.
- Current Imperator-level Subscribers get this item and the above Centurion-level item as part of their subscriptions.
Headhunters Carnifex ‘Lucky Break’ Armor Set
- Gear up like the Headhunters with a Stella-Fortuna twist. Includes ‘Lucky Break’ Deadhead helmet, deep-space undersuit, and full Carnifex armor.
- This item is available for all Subscribers to pledge for in the dedicated Subscriber Store.
Party Hard Pack
- Celebrate with your fellow deep-space desperados with this Stella Fortuna-themed party pack featuring two special edition weapons, an armor set, two tankards, and more! Work hard, party hard.
- This item is available for all Subscribers to pledge for in the dedicated Subscriber Store.
Centurion Subscribers: Tumbril Storm (with 12-month insurance)
Tumbril Storm: Unparalleled speed and maneuverability make the Tumbril Storm the ultimate solo combat vehicle for hit-and-run ground attacks.
Imperator Subscribers: Tumbril Storm Series  (with 24-month insurance)
Tumbril Storm AA: Outfitted for anti-aircraft operations, the ‘AA’ variant complements the Storm’s exceptional performance with devastating ground-to-air missile launchers.
Tumbril Storm: Unparalleled speed and maneuverability make the Tumbril Storm the ultimate solo combat vehicle for hit-and-run ground attacks.
MERCHANDISE DISCOUNT
Two continuous discount levels are available to all Subscribers in the Merch
Store. Centurion Subscribers receive a 10% off discount, while Imperator
Subscribers receive 15% off. Take advantage of this perk and peruse the
selection of available merchandise including jackets, hoodies, shirts, mugs,
hats, mousepads, posters, stickers, and more. Check out the now.
Merchandise Store
SUBSCRIBER STORE
All previous flair items going back to 2014 are available to pledge in the
Subscriber Store. You can fill in any gaps, pick up store-only items, or
grab extras to gift to non-Subscribers from the My Hangar section of your
RSI profile.
Shop Now
NOT A SUBSCRIBER?
If you would like to receive this flair as part of a subscription, you can subscribe before March 10, 2025 (20:00 UTC). Otherwise, you can pick up these and previous months’ flair (going back to 2014) in the dedicated Subscriber Store.
Subscribe Now
