PILOT NOW
In this dimension
Energy crates
Quantum drive
BACK to RSI
ATLS GEO
ATLS GEO
by Argo Astronautics
Now that the Argo ATLS GEO has been added to the 'verse, we posed a few questions to the dev team about the new mining power suit. Here are the answers, straight from the designers themselves.
With the recent update in Alpha 4.1 separating FPS and ground-vehicle mineables, can the ATLS GEO mine both?
The ATLS GEO can mine both. A special modifier inside the GEO can be activated to reduce the laser’s power to suit the demands of FPS mineables.
Can I swap out the GEO's mining laser for other S0 mining lasers, a salvage beam, or a tractor beam?
Players can swap out the mining laser for other S0 mining lasers, like the ones that come with the ROC, ROC DS, the new one recently added to the shop, or future ones to come. Salvage or tractor beams are not compatible with the mining arm though.
How does the ATLS GEO's backpack work? Does it automatically generate a container for the minerals I collect or do I need to purchase and install a separate container?
The backpack’s container needs to be bought and replaced once full.
Do the mining laser and Jump Pack consume any form of fuel, such as hydrogen fuel or batteries?
The Jump Pack consumes ‘thrust,’ which is regenerated internally. Once the battery element of Engineering gameplay is released, the GEO and its Jump Pack will be powered by a battery. This will be a one-handed consumable that the player can exchange or recharge when empty.
How high can the ATLS GEO jump on a planet with 1G gravity?
A normal jump is not that high, but once the Jump Pack kicks in, players can reach heights of up to 15m in a 1G environment.
Can I control my direction in mid-air using the jump pack?
The player cannot change direction while in the air. They can turn their ATLS GEO in the air though.
Do the jump pack thrusters also enable it to maneuver in space?
No, none of the ATLS power suits function in space.
Can the base ATLS be equipped with a jump pack?
No, the base ATLS does not support the backpack that houses the Jump Pack.
Is the ATLS still invulnerable?
No, all ATLS power suits were recently updated to take damage, meaning players will be able to attack and damage them. There is a health indicator in the cockpit that shows the current state as well as visuals indicating the damage the ATLS has taken.
Will the GEO have different stats from the base ATLS?
The two just differ in mass; the GEO is slightly heavier because of the added backpack and Jump Pack.
Does the ATLS GEO come with an integrated headlight, as we can see one at the top of the mech?
Yes, the ATLS GEO has a headlight.
If multiple ATLS GEOs mine the same rock, does their power combine to break it faster?
Yes, the rules are the same as existing mining vehicles; multiple ATLS GEOs can mine the same rocks but will make the procedure more unstable.
Why mine with an ATLS GEO instead of a ROC? What are the key differences?
One of the key differences is that the ATLS GEO can more comfortably deal with FPS mineables. Additionally, the ATLS GEO’s size means it can reach locations that the ROC can’t.
Why was dark green chosen as the color scheme for the ATLS GEO instead of Argo's signature orange?
We wanted to differentiate the ATLS GEO from the base ATLS. Argo is well known for its bold orange color, but we felt green evokes thoughts of nature (be it mainly a reference to earth’s natural world) and this would fit nicely with the GEO's function. We could have opted for neutral or earthy brown tones, but we still wanted the GEO to stand out against its environment.
