April 2025
Subscriber Promotions
Alpha 4.1 is live in the ‘verse! Alongside the Drake Golem, Argo ATLS GEO, and loads of quality-of-life fixes, pilots are being tasked with gathering rare minerals for a mysterious new mission giver, the Collector.
To help you unearth a wealth of valuable treasures, all subscribers can storm the orbital laser platform in a bona-fide classic, the Drake Buccaneer. Imperators can also take Drake’s long-range exploration icon, the Corsair, out for a spin throughout the month.
To welcome the Collector to the ‘verse, this month’s Flair features a Wikelo-themed bomber jacket and a holographic bust for your persistent hangar.
Wikelo Emporium Jacket
- Super style! Supreme comfort! The Wikelo Emporium jacket is made with premium synthetic leather for a resilient and fashionable exterior, and an ultra-soft lining that enwraps the Human body like friend. Expect nothing less than the absolute best when Wikelo put their name on it.”
- Current Centurion-level Subscribers get this item as part of their subscriptions.
Wikelo Emporium Bust
- “Hello, Human neighbor. I am Wikelo and now live in your Human system of Stanton. Have many things if you would like to come visit. Can make too. If not, I understand. Enjoy this gift from me.”
- Current Imperator-level Subscribers get this item and the above Centurion-level item as part of their subscriptions.
The Wikelo Emporium Pack
- Both Wikelo Emporium Flair items in one place. Includes the Wikelo Emporium Jacket and Emporium Bust.
- This item is available for all Subscribers to pledge for in the dedicated Subscriber Store.
Centurion Subscribers: Drake Buccaneer (with 12-month insurance)
Drake Buccaneer: Rugged, raw, and utterly Drake in design and execution, the Buccaneer is a force to be reckoned with thanks to its heavyweight weapons loadout, chiefly its top-mounted Gatling gun.
Imperator Subscribers: Drake Corsair & Buccaneer  (with 24-month insurance)
Drake Corsair: Head out on the trip of a lifetime in Drake’s ever-capable explorer. Outfitted to support a crew of four in the most dangerous sectors of space, the Corsair ensures you’re in safe hands, wherever you roam.
Drake Buccaneer: Rugged, raw, and utterly Drake in design and execution, the Buccaneer is a force to be reckoned with thanks to its heavyweight weapons loadout, chiefly its top-mounted Gatling gun.
MERCHANDISE DISCOUNT
Two continuous discount levels are available to all Subscribers in the Merch
Store. Centurion Subscribers receive a 10% off discount, while Imperator
Subscribers receive 15% off. Take advantage of this perk and peruse the
selection of available merchandise including jackets, hoodies, shirts, mugs,
hats, mousepads, posters, stickers, and more. Check out the now.
Merchandise Store
SUBSCRIBER STORE
All previous flair items going back to 2014 are available to pledge in the
Subscriber Store. You can fill in any gaps, pick up store-only items, or
grab extras to gift to non-Subscribers from the My Hangar section of your
RSI profile.
Shop Now
NOT A SUBSCRIBER?
If you would like to receive this flair as part of a subscription, you can subscribe before April 7, 2025 (20:00 UTC). Otherwise, you can pick up these and previous months’ flair (going back to 2014) in the dedicated Subscriber Store.
Subscribe Now
