May 2025
Subscriber Promotions
The UEE Navy fleet returns to Stanton! From May 15 to 27, we’re celebrating everything military in the ‘verse throughout Invictus Launch Week. What began as local gatherings to wave off new troops to the naval flight academy is now an official holiday, featuring a huge vehicle convention on ArcCorp, fleet flybys, in-service ship tours, and more.
To help you make the trip to Area18, all active subscribers get access to Origin’s iconic grand tourer, the 600i. Imperators can also explore the distant reaches in the expedition variant, the 600i Explorer.
Plus, decorate your ship (and yourself) for the occasion with May’s military-inspired Flair.
Idris-P T-Shirt
- Celebrate 80 years of the Idris-P with this limited-edition t-shirt, featuring a schematic-style image on the front and the Aegis Dynamics logo on the back.
- Current Centurion-level Subscribers get this item as part of their subscriptions.
- ﻿This item will be delivered in an upcoming patch.
Invictus Patch Collection
- Mounted inside a beautiful display case, this collection features three patches honoring the naval bases used over the centuries to train recruits into the brave starmen who dedicate their lives to defending Humanity.
- Current Imperator-level Subscribers get this item and the above Centurion-level item as part of their subscriptions.
- ﻿This item will be delivered in an upcoming patch.
Invictus Launch Week 2955 Collection
- Contains the Invictus Patch Collection with display case, Second Tevarin War Service Uniform (jacket & trousers), Idris-P t-shirt, and Gemini LH86 ‘Voyager Edition’ pistol.
- This item is available for all Subscribers to pledge for in the dedicated Subscriber Store.
- ﻿These items will be delivered in an upcoming patch.
Centurion Subscribers: Origin 600i Touring (with 12-month insurance)
Origin 600i Touring: Travel the length and breadth of the galaxy in a ship built for extreme-distance journeys. Comfortable, luxurious, and generously equipped, the Origin 600i Touring is the perfect way to travel to the Invictus Launch Week celebrations in style.
Imperator Subscribers: Origin 600i Explorer & Touring  (with 24-month insurance)
Origin 600i Explorer: Extra cargo capacity, upgraded scanning, and a more focused interior turn the comfort-oriented 600i into a truly capable deep-space traveler. Visit the Invictus expo before jumping to Pyro to experience the best and worst the ‘verse has to offer.
Origin 600i Touring: Travel the length and breadth of the galaxy in a ship built for extreme-distance journeys. Comfortable, luxurious, and generously equipped, the Origin 600i Touring is the perfect way to travel to the Invictus Launch Week celebrations in style.
MERCHANDISE DISCOUNT
Two continuous discount levels are available to all Subscribers in the Merch
Store. Centurion Subscribers receive a 10% off discount, while Imperator
Subscribers receive 15% off. Take advantage of this perk and peruse the
selection of available merchandise including jackets, hoodies, shirts, mugs,
hats, mousepads, posters, stickers, and more. Check out the now.
Merchandise Store
SUBSCRIBER STORE
All previous flair items going back to 2014 are available to pledge in the
Subscriber Store. You can fill in any gaps, pick up store-only items, or
grab extras to gift to non-Subscribers from the My Hangar section of your
RSI profile.
Shop Now
NOT A SUBSCRIBER?
If you would like to receive this flair as part of a subscription, you can subscribe before May 12, 2025 (20:00 UTC). Otherwise, you can pick up these and previous months’ flair (going back to 2014) in the dedicated Subscriber Store.
Subscribe Now
