Secure Yours Now
In this dimension
Energy crates
Quantum drive
BACK to RSI
Mirai Guardian MX
Guardian MX
by Mirai
Stripped of anything that doesn’t serve its lethal agenda, the Guardian MX is dedicated to getting the job done with devastating precision.
We asked the Vehicle and Gameplay teams a few questions about the new member of the Mirai Guardian family. Here are the answers, straight from the devs themselves.
How does the additional weaponry and armor affect the Guardian MX's handling and range compared to the base variant?
The Guardian MX’s critical and part HP values are noticeably increased compared to the baseline variants. This is to support its more deadly firepower and expanded combat role.
That said, the MX uses the same fuel tanks as the standard models, so due to its increased mass, it will burn more fuel, especially during atmospheric flight.
For quantum travel, range remains the same, since fuel capacity is unchanged.
Does the additional weaponry compared to the base model affect the ship's footprint? If so, which ships will it fit in?
The wings of the Guardian MX have become thicker to accommodate the additional weaponry, which gives the ship a larger footprint. You’ll have to try it for yourself to see what ships it will fit in.
Will the Guardian MX receive upgraded components to support the additional weaponry, and if so, how will this affect its signature compared to the base variant?
The Guardian MX’s power plant has been upgraded to a single Size 2 to support the additional weaponry. It also received a second Size 2 shield generator and an extra Size 1 cooler. This will increase the signature compared to the base Guardian.
While the Guardian has forward-facing missile launchers, the Guardian MX seems to have missile launchers mounted on the top. Does that change anything in terms of gameplay?
The missile racks on the Guardian MX are built into the structure of the wings, allowing them to hold more than a standard rack. This means that the missile type is swappable, though the missile racks themselves and missile sizes can’t be changed.
Under what circumstances would one choose the Guardian MX over the base variant, and when might the base variant be more suitable?
The Guardian MX is a dedicated combat ship with upgraded components. However, to fit all the new components into the ship, the habitation area is sacrificed. Therefore, you should choose the base Guardian if you want to be able to live in your Guardian due to its bed, bathroom, and food processor.
How does its performance compare to other manufacturers' heavy fighters, such as the Anvil Hurricane or F8C Lightning?
The MX variant is designed to strike a balance between durability and firepower while still maintaining the Mirai handling signature that sets it apart.
That said, with durability and firepower being the main focus, it’s not the most agile heavy fighter out there. For example, the Hurricane outperforms the MX in raw agility, performing higher linear Gs and superior maneuverability.
On the other hand, when compared to heavier ships like the F8C Lightning, the MX holds an edge in maneuverability, acceleration, and top speed. Though it doesn’t match the F8C’s toughness and durability.
In the base variant, the bed functions as an escape pod. With the living area removed in the MX, does this mean it no longer includes an escape pod?
This is correct. Without the bed, there is no dedicated escape pod. In case of emergency, the pilot must leave through one of the other exits.
How does deploying the cockpit armor affect pilot visibility?
The cockpit armor functions similarly to the armor on the Fury MX. There is extra framing around the cockpit, but it shouldn’t have a large impact on visibility.
Another note on visibility: We have redesigned the ship’s cockpit layout by bringing the MFDs and buttons from the top to the bottom. This changes the visibility for the better. We plan to retroactively bring this redesigned cockpit to the base and QI versions in the future.
Will the deployed cockpit armor affect the ship’s defense during combat, or will its benefits only be apparent once the Maelstrom damage system is implemented?
Even without Maelstrom, the cockpit armor will provide extra health to the cockpit before it can be destroyed, but it won’t help against shots that hit the wings or body.
