June 2025
Subscriber Promotions
June welcomes dangerous new adventures and immersive in-game storytelling thanks to the impending release of Alpha 4.2. To help you brave the storm and aid Humanity’s ongoing issues with regeneration, all Subscribers can drop into action in Drake’s rugged dropship, the Cutlass Steel. Imperator Subs can also enter the fray in the UEE Navy’s own troop transporter, the Anvil Valkyrie.
This month’s Flair is also suitably themed around the upcoming patch, with an ASD bomber jacket alongside an irradiated valakkar hangar diorama.
ASD Bomber Jacket
- Originally exclusive to ASD workers in the Biological Research Division, this synthetic leather has the look, feel, and smell of the real thing. The company's logo is featured on the front and back.
- Current Centurion-level Subscribers get this item as part of their subscriptions.
- ﻿This item will be delivered in an upcoming patch.
Irradiated Valakkar Diorama
- Irradiated by toxic storms on Pyro I, the valakkar bursts from the ground in this decorative hangar diorama.
- Current Imperator-level Subscribers get this item and the above Centurion-level item as part of their subscriptions.
- ﻿This item will be delivered in an upcoming patch.
ASD Jacket & Irradiated Valakkar Diorama
- Contains the ASD Bomber Jacket and Irradiated Valakkar Diorama.
- This item is available for all Subscribers to pledge for in the dedicated Subscriber Store.
- ﻿These items will be delivered in an upcoming patch.
Centurion Subscribers: Drake Cutlass Steel (with 12-month insurance)
Drake Cutlass Steel: Pick up your whole squad and take on the dangers of the storm. Built to transport 18 soldiers plus 3 crew members and a host of small arms, it’s the ideal way to get into the heart of the action.
Imperator Subscribers: Anvil Valkyrie and Drake Cutlass Steel  (with 24-month insurance)
Anvil Valkyrie: Heavy hitting and heavily defended, the Anvil Valkyrie is perfect for braving the most hostile warzones. Take 20 troops, cargo, and a ground vehicle in the fray without risking casualties on the way.
Drake Cutlass Steel: Pick up your whole squad and take on the dangers of the storm. Built to transport 18 soldiers plus 3 crew members and a host of small arms, it’s the ideal way to get into the heart of the action.
MERCHANDISE DISCOUNT
Two continuous discount levels are available to all Subscribers in the Merch
Store. Centurion Subscribers receive 10% off merchandise, while Imperator
Subscribers receive 15% off. Take advantage of this perk and peruse the
selection of available merchandise including jackets, hoodies, shirts, mugs,
hats, mousepads, stickers, and more.
Merchandise Store
SUBSCRIBER STORE
All previous flair items going back to 2014 are available to pledge in the
Subscriber Store. You can fill in any gaps, pick up store-only items, or
grab extras to gift to non-Subscribers from the My Hangar section of your
RSI profile.
Shop Now
NOT A SUBSCRIBER?
If you would like to receive this flair as part of a subscription, you can subscribe before June 9, 2025 (20:00 UTC). Otherwise, you can pick up these and previous months’ flair (going back to 2014) in the dedicated Subscriber Store.
Subscribe Now
