Secure Yours Now
In this dimension
Energy crates
Quantum drive
BACK to RSI
GREYCAT MTC
GREYCAT MDC
by Greycat
Putting function over form, Greycat presents the MTC, your stalwart ally in planetside operations with comprehensive suit and weapons storage, defensive weaponry, and its customary off-road ability.
We asked the Vehicle and Gameplay teams a few questions about Greycat's dedicated light armored vehicle. Here are the answers, straight from the devs themselves.
Beyond activities that require converging on a single location, such as Jumptown, where else is this vehicle intended to be deployed?
The MTC is a great standalone vehicle with enough utility to support yourself and another player for virtually any ground-based encounter within the Star Citizen universe.
What are the Greycat MTC’s shield and armor specifications? For reference, the Spartan has 2x Size 0 shields and strong armor, while the Ursa has 1x Size 0 shield.
The MTC features a single Size 0 shield, which is in line with other vehicles of the same class. Armor-wise, it stands out thanks to its robust durability, as it is intended to serve as the more tactical option within its class.
How many weapons and armor suits can be stored on board?
There are two armor suit lockers along with a pair of weapon racks capable of storing a range of small arms, from pistols to rifles. There is also a special-sized weapon rack between the armor lockers for weapons such as a rail gun.
How many SCU of storage does the vehicle have?
The MTC is capable of carrying 4x 0.125 SCU boxes for a total of 0.5 SCU.
What weapons are equipped on the vehicle?
The top remote turret is equipped with a pair of S2 weapons.
Who operates the remote turret?
The driver has control by default and can fire in a limited arc while driving. However, the rear seat has full remote control of the turret for 360° coverage. This takes priority over the driver.
How many people can the vehicle transport?
Officially, two players are supported: one driver and one gunner.
What is the vehicle’s top speed on flat ground?
While the Spartan reaches about 35 m/s and the Ursa about 40 m/s, the top speed of the vehicle is recorded at around 35 m/s (125 km/h or 78 mph), which is slightly slower compared to other vehicles of a similar class. This is due to its enhanced armor, which increases the vehicle’s weight and consequently reduces its straight-line speed.
How well does the vehicle handle mountainous or rocky terrain?
The vehicle’s suspension has been precisely tuned to handle rough and hilly terrain. It can easily sustain and perform small jumps downhill at top speed while effectively absorbing impacts. Its skidding tendencies also give drivers plenty of opportunities for impressive maneuvers and drifting, all while maintaining full control of the vehicle.
What is the intended use for the suit lockers and weapon racks, considering troops in drop seats can already be fully equipped with backpacks, gear, and multiple weapons?
While that is currently possible, in the future there will be limitations or penalties to sitting in some seats with certain gear, so this futureproofs the vehicle for those scenarios as well as providing players options in case the needs of the mission change.
Is there dedicated ammunition storage on board?
No, there is no dedicated ammunition storage, only the external cargo rack and internal personal storage.
How far can the vehicle travel on a full fuel tank?
At this time, there is no range restriction as ground vehicles do not currently consume fuel. However, this will change in the future.
Will players be able to swap the tires for different types of terrain in the future, like the Ursa variants?
This is still planned for the future.
In which ships can the vehicle be transported?
It is very similar in size to the Ursa rover rather than smaller vehicles like the Cyclone, so anything an Ursa fits in should support the MTC. The only exception to this is the Constellation Phoenix, which has restricted headroom, so the MTC may struggle to fit aboard.
Why would a player choose to transport infantry in the MTC instead of using a Spartan or an Ursa?
The Spartan is a significantly larger vehicle with a greater troop payload, so it is for much larger expeditions or missions. The MTC is more akin to the Ursa and provides an alternative option in stats, handling, and visual appearance
How many exits does the vehicle have?
The MTC offers a single side door exit.
Can the turret elevate enough to engage aircraft, or is it designed specifically to target ground vehicles and infantry?
While the turret can raise up, it is not a dedicated anti-aircraft turret, so is more useful for attacking other ground vehicles and infantry.
Are there any medical supplies or other support equipment included?
There is no additional medical or specialized support equipment included.
