Secure Yours Now
In this dimension
Energy crates
Quantum drive
BACK to RSI
Anvil Asgard
by Anvil
Introducing Anvil’s new savior of the battlefield, the Asgard - a heavily armored vehicle equipped for boundless resilience in the hottest combat zones.
We asked the Vehicle and Gameplay teams a few questions about Anvil's new dropship. Here are the answers, straight from the devs themselves.
What is the key difference between the Valkyrie and the Asgard? In what situations might a player choose one over the other?
The primary difference is that the Asgard chassis has been extended to accommodate the on-board storage of a single Nova-tank-sized vehicle or one of the Anvil Atlas chassis family (Ballista, Spartan, and Centurion).
However, this is at the expense of crew accommodation and drop seats, which the Valkyrie houses. The crew requirement for the Asgard is lower than the Valkyrie, as some weapons are slaved to the pilot, allowing for significant forward-facing firepower. In comparison, the Valkyrie’s turrets provide greater coverage in all arcs beyond the front.
How many people can be accommodated in the Asgard dropship? How many when a Nova Tank is loaded?
There are no dedicated drop seats in the Asgard. The crew requirement is only two players, these being a pilot and a second player either operating the manual lower turret or completing engineering-related work.
If the Asgard pilot is alone and without a gunner, how many forward-facing weapons can they operate?
The pilot can control the six facing-forward S3 weapons along with the top-mounted missile rack.
Are the 2x S4 manual gunner turrets able to fire in an arc, or are they fixed to face forward?
The manual gunner turrets can rotate 360 degrees with good downward-facing angles, allowing players to engage ground targets ahead of dropping vehicles into the area.
The Asgard has a significant amount of facing-forward weaponry, rather than multiple turrets covering all angles of defense as found on other dropships. What was the reasoning behind this design choice?
We wanted there to be gameplay differences between the Asgard and other dropships, like the Valkyrie. It was a conscious design decision to provide most of the firepower as forward-facing to distinguish the Asgard amongst those other ships.
What was the reasoning behind equipping the Asgard with 16x S3 missiles? What threats or targets is it specifically designed to counter?
The missiles were added to provide some ability to tackle threats outside of the front arc. However, missile lock is only possible from the pilot’s view, requiring players to keep targets in sight prior to launch.
Can you provide examples of missions, roles, or scenarios that the Asgard is intended for?
The Asgard excels in missions that require transporting ground vehicles and cargo, either together or independently. With its large rear ramp, loading and unloading cargo is simple.
Does the Asgard feature a cargo grid in addition to its 180 SCU storage? Could this be used to transport ammo, fuel, and other equipment to the battlefield?
The 180 SCU cargo grid is the only cargo grid on the vehicle and occupies the same area as the vehicle storage. This means that when a vehicle is aboard, cargo capacity is reduced.
Does the Asgard retain the lateral doors from its sister ship, the Valkyrie?
Yes, along with the side door guns.
Does the pilot have good visibility beneath them to aid in landing troops? Is there an MFD landing camera system?
We are still working on updated landing systems that utilize the radar displays to show the location of the ship relative to its surrounding terrain.
Can the four thrusters on the Asgard transition to VTOL mode?
Yes, they can.
Is it possible to apply Valkyrie paints to the Asgard?
No, the Asgard is treated as a new and separate vehicle, so paints from the Valkyrie are not applicable to the Asgard.
