July 2025
Subscriber Promotions
Alpha 4.2: Storm Breaker is LIVE in the Persistent Universe!
Whether you’re heading out to uncover the secrets of the storm, exploring locked-down research facilities, or simply keeping the wheels of commerce turning, July’s Vehicle of the Month has your back. Built for long-distance hauling in the most dangerous systems, the MISC Starlancer MAX is the perfect ally on any mission. This month’s Flair features cargo-themed collectibles that will add a cute yet industrial touch to your hangar.
Cuddly Cargo Collection
- A haul you can hug. Includes six cargo-box plushies from UDM, Red Wing, Covalex, T.A.B.A., Ling Family, and Interstellar Transport Guild.
- Current Centurion-level Subscribers get this item as part of their subscriptions.
- ﻿This item will be delivered in an upcoming patch.
Decorative Cargo Collection
- There's no need for a tractor beam to move these cargo containers. Includes six finely detailed cargo box models of UDM, Red Wing, Covalex, T.A.B.A., Ling Family, and Interstellar Transport Guild.
- Current Imperator-level Subscribers get this item and the above Centurion-level item as part of their subscriptions.
- ﻿This item will be delivered in an upcoming patch.
Cargo Collection Pack
- This pack contains both the Cuddly and Decorative Cargo Collection flair items. Includes six plushies and six decorative cargo box models of UDM, Red Wing, Covalex, T.A.B.A., Ling Family, and Interstellar Transport Guild.
- This item is available for all Subscribers to pledge for in the dedicated Subscriber Store.
- ﻿These items will be delivered in an upcoming patch.
Centurion Subscribers: MISC Starlancer MAX (with 12-month insurance)
MISC Starlancer MAX: Built to haul heavy loads across the most treacherous star systems. The Starlancer MAX’s huge cargo hold and staunch defenses make it the ideal way to take on the newest challenges of the ‘verse.
Imperator Subscribers: Drake Caterpillar and MISC Starlancer MAX (with 24-month insurance)
Drake Caterpillar: An icon of “privateer” hauling and bona fide classic. Heavily defended and built for danger, the Caterpillar utilizes Drake’s rough-and-ready approach to shipbuilding for heavyweight hauling.
MISC Starlancer MAX: Built to haul heavy loads across the most treacherous star systems. The Starlancer MAX’s huge cargo hold and staunch defenses make it the ideal way to take on the newest challenges of the ‘verse.
MERCHANDISE DISCOUNT
Two continuous discount levels are available to all Subscribers in the Merch
Store. Centurion Subscribers receive 10% off merchandise, while Imperator
Subscribers receive 15% off. Take advantage of this perk and peruse the
selection of available merchandise including jackets, hoodies, shirts, mugs,
hats, mousepads, stickers, and more.
Merchandise Store
SUBSCRIBER STORE
All previous flair items going back to 2014 are available to pledge in the
Subscriber Store. You can fill in any gaps, pick up store-only items, or
grab extras to gift to non-Subscribers from the My Hangar section of your
RSI profile.
Shop Now
NOT A SUBSCRIBER?
If you would like to receive this flair as part of a subscription, you can subscribe before July 7, 2025 (20:00 UTC). Otherwise, you can pick up these and previous months’ flair (going back to 2014) in the dedicated Subscriber Store.
Subscribe Now
