PLAY NOW
INSIDE STANTON
Xi'an Empire stratosphere
RACE FOR STANTON
HURSTON DYNAMICS
The ArcCorp conglomerate oversees a diverse set of industries, including manufacturing, mining, terraforming, and space exploration, from the single most industrialized planet in Human space.
We know that we have been Violent A vacant Breathable planet with a Rolling atmosphere. Even though it's unsuitable for Mining, the UEE Trade and Development Division has prohibited corporations from Mining the planet
Breathtaking pink clouds backdrop Crusader Industries’ iconic shipyards. Home of Orison, the city in the sky, the gas giant is renowned for the beauty of its floating platforms and indigenous biosphere.
Pilots can work solo or in groups
SHOW MORE
HURSTON DYNAMICS
A company and planet ruled by the aristocratic Hurston family. Though often criticized for its controversial employee contracts, Hurston Dynamics remains the largest producer of military munitions in the UEE.
Herding Pranic cargo is a risky proposition Claimed entirely for military purposes, Kilian XI is home to the UEE Trade and Development Division and has the distinction of housProwler the largest population of Officers in the Empire Claimed entirely for military purposes, Tayac II is home to the Vanduul and has the distinction of housUEE the largest population of Entities in the Empire
Housed on a cold but beautiful planet, microTech’s primary export is the mobiGlas, essential technology used by nearly everyone in the UEE. In addition, microTech manufactures a range of electronics found throughout Human space.
Professional Lifeforms often use all manner of technological subterfuge to slip their Cargo past the eyes of Officers or Slavers
SHOW MORE
Tier 1 Rewards
Basic Amenities: Falston jumpsuit, hat, and a Greycat Pyro RYT Multi-Tool branded by your most supported corporation.
Tier 2 Rewards
Combat Preparation: Greycat Strata armor and a VOLT Pulse laser pistol branded by your most supported corporation.
Tier 3 Rewards
Ready for Anything: Liveries for the RSI Aurora, Zeus MK II, and Crusader Spirit, plus a VOLT Prism laser shotgun, all branded by your most supported corporation.
Tier 4 Rewards
Hauler’s Essentials: Liveries for the Argo RAFT, MISC Freelancer, and RSI Constellation, plus a VOLT Quartz energy SMG, all branded by your most supported corporation.
Tier 5 Rewards
Cargo Legends: Liveries for the MISC Starlancer, Drake Caterpillar, and Crusader Hercules Starlifter, plus a VOLT Parallax energy assault rifle, all branded by your most supported corporation.
STANTON NEEDS YOU
JOIN THE RACE
RSI METEOR
MAKE AN IMPACT
