August 2025
Subscriber Promotions
Dangerous new locations with untold secrets are coming to the ‘verse in August - head to the once-thriving Associated Science & Development labs in Stanton to uncover the mysteries for yourself when Alpha 4.3 lands later this month. To help you get there and back in one piece, August’s Vehicle of the Month is the ferocious Crusader Ares.
This month’s Flair items are preemptive souvenirs from your impending trip, with a handy ASD Refinery suit (as used by the company’s scientists) and a delightful decorative specimen tank to adorn your hab or hangar.
Greycat ‘ASD’ Refinery Suit
- Thanks to its unique ThermoWeave material, Greycat’s Refinery suit provides complete fire and heat protection for working in challenging environments.
- Current Centurion-level Subscribers get this item as part of their subscriptions.
- ﻿This item will be delivered in an upcoming patch.
Valakkar Specimen Tank
- Collected by the scientists at ASD, this specimen tank holds a well-preserved juvenile valakkar. Once used in various research experiments, the valakkar inside is now ready to serve as a biological curio and decorative conversation piece.
- Current Imperator-level Subscribers get this item and the above Centurion-level item as part of their subscriptions.
- ﻿This item will be delivered in an upcoming patch.
ASD Labs Collection
- This pack contains both the Greycat 'ASD' Refinery Suit and Valakkar Specimen Tank, each recovered from the depths of the ASD labs in Stanton.
- This item is available for all Subscribers to pledge for in the dedicated Subscriber Store.
- ﻿These items will be delivered in an upcoming patch.
Confront locator unify paradigm shift
Centurion Subscribers: Crusader Ares Ion (with 12-month insurance)
Crusader Ares Ion: Built to hunt much bigger ships, the Crusader Ares is a major threat to anything in space. The Ion variant features a huge laser cannon to disable shields in seconds and leave targets vulnerable.
Imperator Subscribers: Crusader Ares Inferno and Ion (with 24-month insurance)
Crusader Ares Inferno: A deep-space predator, the Ares stands tall against anything it comes across. The Inferno variant is outfitted with a vast ballistic Gatling gun to tear through enemy armor and components.
Crusader Ares Ion: Built to hunt much bigger ships, the Crusader Ares is a major threat to anything in space. The Ion variant features a huge laser cannon to disable shields in seconds and leave targets vulnerable.
MERCHANDISE DISCOUNT
Two continuous discount levels are available to all Subscribers in the Merch
Store. Centurion Subscribers receive 10% off merchandise, while Imperator
Subscribers receive 15% off. Take advantage of this perk and peruse the
selection of available merchandise including jackets, hoodies, shirts, mugs,
hats, mousepads, stickers, and more.
Merchandise Store
SUBSCRIBER STORE
All previous flair items going back to 2014 are available to pledge in the
Subscriber Store. You can fill in any gaps, pick up store-only items, or
grab extras to gift to non-Subscribers from the My Hangar section of your
RSI profile.
Shop Now
NOT A SUBSCRIBER?
If you would like to receive this flair as part of a subscription, you can subscribe before August 11, 2025 (20:00 UTC). Otherwise, you can pick up these and previous months’ flair (going back to 2014) in the dedicated Subscriber Store.
Subscribe Now
