Secure Yours Now
Kruger L-21 Wolf
Kruger L-22 Alpha Wolf
BACK to RSI
L-21 Wolf & L-22 Alpha Wolf
by Kruger
A symphony of past and present, Kruger’s latest Light Fighters blend golden-age aerospace styling with ultra-modern technology, proving the old ways can still be the best.
Available as either the L-21 Wolf with a ballistic weapons package or the L-22 Alpha Wolf equipped with lasers, both ships feature bespoke S4 repeaters delivering potent firepower to any engagement.
We asked the Vehicle and Gameplay teams a few questions about these new additions to the Kruger family. Here are the answers, straight from the devs themselves.
Could you introduce the Kruger brand for those unfamiliar with it, and for lore enthusiasts, are there any new developments or changes to Kruger’s lore with this ship’s release?
Renowned for their manufacturing precision and expertise, Kruger Intergalactic is the UEE's premier custom parts manufacturer with longstanding contracts with RSI, Behring, and other industry titans. As their success grew, Kruger methodically expanded operations into weapons manufacturing before partnering with RSI on the P-series snub fighters for the Constellation. The L-21 Wolf is the first ship independently developed and manufactured by the company and beautifully blends their unique design aesthetic with centuries of manufacturing expertise. To celebrate this exciting new era, Kruger updated their logo to use a sleek silver and white color scheme to embody the subtle elegance they strive for in their products.
Does the Wolf have a quantum drive?
Yes. It’s Kruger’s first fully functional spaceship, not a snub craft like their previous offerings.
What unique design elements or features do the team want to highlight most on this new ship?
Being the first ship independently developed by Kruger, we wanted to reintroduce the Kruger brand and use it as an excuse to explore the unique visuals of the manufacturer. We also wanted to:
- Push the elegance of what a combat ship is in our universe
- Show there is room for smooth and sleek lines on a deadly combat-focused ship
- Hark back to the 50's era of concept vehicles and design that we have lost over time
- Mix clean, flowing lines with a very aggressive cockpit location, intimidating weapons, and a landing stance that echoes historic single-seater warplanes
Does Kruger bring a unique ship UI style to the Wolf?
The L-21 Wolf features an adapted version of the generic UI to fit its unique and elegant dashboard. However, a bespoke UI style for Kruger is in development.
Given Kruger’s distinctive styling, with the cockpit positioned in the mid section, how does this placement impact pilot visibility?
As the L-21 Wolf is a pure combat ship, player visibility was one of the key design goals when we set out with the early concepting. Originally, we had the cockpit sit further back on the body. However, we discovered this did impact player visibility in a negative way.
We iterated on the cockpit and the pilot’s seating position early on to be confident we could make a ship that flies as good as it looks. The pilot’s combat experience was always high on the priority list.
The current release of the Wolf does not include accessible physicalized components. Are there plans to add them in a future update?
Whilst the current release of the Wolf does not have accessible components, they are physicalised in the correct positions and will be accessible and physically swappable in a future patch.
What kind of playstyle is the Wolf designed for? What roles or situations does it truly excel in?
The L-21 Wolf is a dedicated Light Fighter built for close-quarters engagements against other small craft. Its role centers on fast-paced dogfights, where it leverages good maneuverability, high speed, and sharp acceleration. These qualities make it a dangerous threat, not only to ships in its own class, but also to those in adjacent roles, including Medium and Heavy Fighters.
Where does Wolf sit in the Light Fighter lineup compared to other options, like the Anvil Arrow or Aegis Gladius?
The L-21 Wolf is a Light Fighter that pushes the limits of maneuverability and acceleration, placing it among top contenders like the Arrow in terms of handling and size.
However, compared to other light fighters in its class, such as the Gladius, the Wolf has a less resilient hull and a higher emissions profile than its competitors.
As a result, pilots will need to carefully manage the double S1 shield HPs.
How does Wolf perform against Medium and Heavy Fighters?
Compared to other classes, the L-21 Wolf offers significantly superior handling and a respectable amount of firepower to take on larger opponents, provided it doesn't stay exposed to enemy fire.
Does it have any storage space or FPS weapon racks?
Yes, the pilot has an external storage on the starboard side, located behind the wing, and a small weapons rack on the port side toward the rear of the ship.
Will the fin affect the ship’s aerodynamics? Can it be toggled using the VTOL keybind?
The fin in the initial release is tied to the landing gear state only, we are investigating player control options to allow it to be manually toggled in a future patch. It currently does not dynamically impact aerodynamic handling, though when the Control Surfaces feature hits the PU you can expect it to have an impact in atmospheric yaw ability.
Is there a way to manually retract or deploy the Wolf's weapons while in SCM?
Yes, you are able to manually toggle weapons via the relevant hotkey, which triggers the retract and deploy animation.
Kruger previously created a racing variant of the Merlin, the Archimedes. Are there any plans to develop a similar racing-focused variant of the Wolf?
Currently, there are no plans to develop a racing variant. However, we would love one as we feel it fits well within Kruger's brand identity, but we will have to see what happens in the future.
About the
L-22 Alpha Wolf
by Kruger
With the Kruger L-21 Wolf having 2x bespoke S4 ballistic Gatling guns, how will the L-22 Alpha Wolf’s armament differ? Will its default guns be replaceable, and will players be able to swap weapons between the Wolf and Alpha Wolf?
The L-22’s default weapons are a pair of bespoke S4 laser repeaters, which are swappable with the bespoke S4 ballistic Gatlings from the L-21 Wolf. Players can choose to run either set of weapons on either ship or even mix and match between the two. They are swappable via VMA as well as by hand with a tractor beam. If a player owns both the L-21 Wolf and L-22 Alpha Wolf, a weapon kit is not required to swap the ship's included weapons.
Do you envision the L-22 Alpha Wolf excelling at strafing runs in extended engagements or modes like Arena Commander, since it doesn’t need to resupply with ammo?
Laser repeaters benefit from the ability to recharge when depleted compared to ballistics. So, while you trade some initial damage, you gain the benefit of staying in the fight for longer.
Much was discussed regarding the L-21 Wolf’s lower fin, which has been announced to be retractable in a future update. Is there a functional reason why the fin was designed smaller for the L-22 Alpha Wolf, or was it merely an aesthetic decision, and are there other differences in the design of these two ships? Even with the Alpha Wolf having a smaller fin, will it also be retractable?
The L-21’s fin is now retractable via a dashboard button as of the Alpha 4.4 release. We decided not to have such a prominent fin on the L-22 to provide a visual alternative to the L-21 while maintaining the overall aesthetic.
How does the L-22 Alpha Wolf differ from the L-21 Wolf in terms of missiles, shields, speed, and maneuverability?
Missile wise, the L-22 swaps the 8x S1 missiles for 6x S2 missiles and keeps the same 2x S1 shield generator arrangement. Due to the subtle alterations to the geometry of the ship, the L-22 trades a small amount of SCM and NAV speeds for improved angular rotation rates.
Will weapon kits become a staple of the Kruger brand going forward, and can we expect that this level of modification may be made available for other Kruger ships in the future?
Yes, this is something to expect on future Kruger ships.
Is the L-22 Alpha Wolf considered a variant of the L-21 Wolf, and will it be compatible with L-21's paints?
Yes, it is considered a variant. As such, the paints for both ships can be used interchangeably.
