September 2025
Subscriber Promotions
In the wake of another thrilling Ship Showdown, excitement is rising again for this month’s Alpha 4.3.1 content drop, which includes previously sealed-off sections of the Onyx facilities. To help you explore safely and discreetly, this month’s Flair is a matching Quirinus Tech 'Daybreaker' helmet and undersuit, along with an all-new memento from the labs themselves.
September’s Vehicle of the Month is the heavy lifting Argo ATLS, with Imperator subscribers also getting their hands on the mining variant, the ATLS GEO.
Quirinus Tech ‘Daybreaker’ Undersuit and Helmet
- The Sabine undersuit and Calva helmet embody the advanced look and performance you expect from Quirinus Tech. This cutting-edge combo provides reliable protection while remaining lightweight. The Daybreaker edition features subtle yet striking gold highlights.
- Current Centurion-level Subscribers get this item as part of their subscriptions.
- ﻿This item will be delivered in an upcoming patch.
GRX Prototype
- Developed by ASD scientists, this experimental power core showed promise thanks to its exceptional output rates, but suffers from energy fluctuations and gravity anomalies that proved to be insurmountable issues rendering it unusable. ASD has ceased all future development of this technology.
- Current Imperator-level Subscribers get this item and the above Centurion-level item as part of their subscriptions.
- ﻿This item will be delivered in an upcoming patch.
Quirinus Tech ‘Daybreaker’ Set & GRX Prototype
- Includes the Quirinus Tech ‘Daybreaker’ Undersuit and Helmet Set and the GRX Prototype. The Sabine undersuit and Calva helmet embody the advanced look and performance you expect from Quirinus Tech. The GRX Prototype is based on an experimental power core developed by ASD scientists who have ceased all future development of this technology.
- This item is available for all Subscribers to pledge for in the dedicated Subscriber Store.
- ﻿These items will be delivered in an upcoming patch.
Confront locator unify paradigm shift
Centurion Subscribers: Argo ATLS (with 12-month insurance)
Argo ATLS: Equipped with an integrated tractor beam, Argo’s ATLS powersuit makes lifting heavy simple. From loading tons of cargo to unloading industrial vessels, it’s a must-have for any serious hauling operation.
Imperator Subscribers: Argo ATLS Geo and ATLS (with 24-month insurance)
Argo ATLS GEO: The classic ATLS outfitted for mining. Reach otherwise inaccessible sites and effortlessly strip treacherous rocks thanks to the GEO’s jump pack, integrated mining laser, and built-in ore storage.
Argo ATLS: Equipped with an integrated tractor beam, Argo’s ATLS powersuit makes lifting heavy simple. From loading tons of cargo to unloading industrial vessels, it’s a must-have for any serious hauling operation.
MERCHANDISE DISCOUNT
Two continuous discount levels are available to all Subscribers in the Merch
Store. Centurion Subscribers receive 10% off merchandise, while Imperator
Subscribers receive 15% off. Take advantage of this perk and peruse the
selection of available merchandise including jackets, hoodies, shirts, mugs,
hats, mousepads, stickers, and more.
Merchandise Store
SUBSCRIBER STORE
All previous flair items going back to 2014 are available to pledge in the
Subscriber Store. You can fill in any gaps, pick up store-only items, or
grab extras to gift to non-Subscribers from the My Hangar section of your
RSI profile.
Shop Now
NOT A SUBSCRIBER?
If you would like to receive this flair as part of a subscription, you can subscribe before September 09, 2025 (20:00 UTC). Otherwise, you can pick up these and previous months’ flair (going back to 2014) in the dedicated Subscriber Store.
Subscribe Now
