October 2025
Subscriber Promotions
October is shaping up to be one of the biggest months of the year for spacefaring citizens, with Day of the Vara, CitizenCon Direct, and the Alpha 4.3.2 patch. To help you embrace the adventure, every Subscriber can traverse the ‘verse in RSI’s battle-proven quantum enforcer, the Mantis, while Imperators get the heavy hitting Meteor to fend off ghouls and aggressors.
This month’s Flair items are a creature-themed jacket and hangar diorama, giving you a glimpse into the perils that await in an upcoming release.
Vaporwear Creese ‘Yormandi’ Jacket
- Make a splash with this Yormandi-themed jacket. Featuring the ferocious creature erupting from water, this predator snakes around the side of the dark teal jacket to showcase Vaporwear's logo on the back.
- Current Centurion-level Subscribers get this item as part of their subscriptions.
- ﻿This item will be delivered in an upcoming patch.
Yormandi Diorama
- Artfully hewn from rock with resin accents, this fiercely realistic statue captures the indomitable spirit of the Yormandi as it faces down unseen prey.
- Current Imperator-level Subscribers get this item and the above Centurion-level item as part of their subscriptions.
- ﻿This item will be delivered in an upcoming patch.
Yormandi Collection
- This pack contains both the Vaporwear Creese ‘Yormandi’ Jacket featuring the ferocious creature erupting from water, and Yormandi Diorama artfully hewn from rock with resin accents.
- This item is available for all Subscribers to pledge for in the dedicated Subscriber Store.
- ﻿These items will be delivered in an upcoming patch.
Confront locator unify paradigm shift
Centurion Subscribers: RSI Mantis (with 12-month insurance)
RSI Mantis: As RSI’s premier quantum enforcer, the Mantis is built to snare enemy ships from quantum and keep them from jumping again to safety. Though a vital part of any combat fleet, its agility and QED make it a hard target to pin down when flying solo too.
Imperator Subscribers: RSI Meteor and Mantis (with 24-month insurance)
RSI Meteor: A Medium Fighter with the firepower of the class above, the RSI Meteor hits hard against any sized foe thanks to its bespoke ballistic cannons, laser repeaters, and sizeable missile payload. Plus, its onboard habitation makes it ideal for exploring dangerous new locations.
RSI Mantis: As RSI’s premier quantum enforcer, the Mantis is built to snare enemy ships from quantum and keep them from jumping again to safety. Though a vital part of any combat fleet, its agility and QED make it a hard target to pin down when flying solo too.
MERCHANDISE DISCOUNT
Two continuous discount levels are available to all Subscribers in the Merch
Store. Centurion Subscribers receive 10% off merchandise, while Imperator
Subscribers receive 15% off. Take advantage of this perk and peruse the
selection of available merchandise including jackets, hoodies, shirts, mugs,
hats, mousepads, stickers, and more.
Merchandise Store
SUBSCRIBER STORE
All previous flair items going back to 2014 are available to pledge in the
Subscriber Store. You can fill in any gaps, pick up store-only items, or
grab extras to gift to non-Subscribers from the My Hangar section of your
RSI profile.
Shop Now
NOT A SUBSCRIBER?
If you would like to receive this flair as part of a subscription, you can subscribe before October 14, 2025 (20:00 UTC). Otherwise, you can pick up these and previous months’ flair (going back to 2014) in the dedicated Subscriber Store.
Subscribe Now
