On-Site Treatments
Incapacitation and Rescue Beacons
Medical Beds
Ships of the Trade
Buzzing with erase
Medical Gameplay Guide
Life, Death, and Life Again Beyond 4.3.1
2024-09-03 19:53:03
Tier 3 : Minor Injury
This lowest level of injury decreases your maximum health pool and introduces several gameplay effects, depending on where you were injured.
A minor injury (T3) to these areas will have the following effects:
- ARMS: Your weapons will become harder to aim, the damage done by melee attacks impaired, and a cumulative reduction in health pool with other injuries.
- LEGS: Movement speed will be diminished, and a cumulative reduction in health pool with other injuries.
- TORSO: Reduction in overall stamina and regen, audible wheezing, , and a cumulative reduction in health pool with other injuries.
- HEAD: Blurring of vision, muffling of audio, reduction in impact effect resistance, delay in stun recovery, and a cumulative reduction in health pool with other injuries.
Minor injuries can be treated on-site or by any medical bed, and do not require stabilization.
Tier 2 : Moderate Injury
Moderate injuries incur all the same penalties and effects of minor ones, with expanded and more pronounced effects, and a few new additions.
A moderate injury (T2) to these areas will have the following effects:
- ARMS: Increasing the severity of existing impairments, and limiting your ability to throw items.
- LEGS: Increasing the severity of existing impairments, and causing the hurt locomotion effect, involving limping with audible grunts of pain.
- TORSO: Increasing the severity of existing impairments, and coughing up blood.
- HEAD: Increasing the severity of existing impairments.
Moderate injuries can have their symptoms stabilized by on-site treatment or a medical bed of any size, but require Tier 2 unit or better to heal.
Tier 1 : Severe Injury
Severe injuries escalate the effects of moderate injuries even further with additional complications.
A severe injury (T1) to these areas will have the following effects:
- ARMS: Increasing the severity of existing impairments, adding the hurt locomotion effect involving limping with audible grunts of pain, and inflicting arm lock preventing you from being able to hold objects or weapons in your hands.
- LEGS: Increasing the severity of existing impairments, and forcing you into a prone state with no ability to stand or crouch.
- TORSO: Increasing the severity of existing impairments, and adding the hurt locomotion effect involving limping with audible grunts of pain.
- HEAD: Increasing the severity of existing impairments, and adding the hurt locomotion effect involving limping with audible grunts of pain..
Severe injuries can have their symptoms stabilized by on-site treatment or a medical bed of any size, but require Tier 1 unit or better to heal.
Tools of the Trade
These can be purchased at any hospital, clinic, or pharmacy.
Medical Pens
2025-08-28 14:58:58
2025-08-28 14:10:49
Medical Pens
Simple and effective, pens deliver the specific medicine you need quickly and easily.
2025-08-28 14:55:57
2025-08-28 15:11:05
With a dedicated attachment this can be used to deliver limited Hemozal treatment to yourself and others.
Curelife Medical Tool
2025-08-28 14:56:06
2025-08-28 14:59:00
Curelife Medical Tool
For the dedicated medical professional, can diagnose and administer most medical drugs in precise amounts.
Stabilization is a temporary way to manage the effects of injuries. By administering the correct drugs, you can suppress these effects for a limited time, allowing you to keep moving, fighting, or escaping danger. Stabilization is not a cure. The injury still exists and will need proper treatment later, but it can buy you a crucial window of time where you can perform at full capacity.
Blood-Drug Level
While stabilization is crucial and necessary, it does carry it's risks, as all drugs will increase your Blood-Drug Level (BDL).
Your BDL is tracked next to your health status on your helmet HUD. Once this level reaches 50% of maximum, you enter an Overdosed state. This will affect your traversal speed, blur your vision, add a weapon sway effect, and may even cause you to pilot your ship or vehicle erratically. Additionally, you will begin to take damage slowly unless these overdose effects are countered.
Using the Curelife Medical Tool
The Curelife Medical Tool can detect injuries and diagnose the health status of any person by targeting specific limbs to see inflicted injuries. This tool has two separate modes: Basic and Advanced.
Basic mode simply applies Hemozal quickly, similar to the Multi-Tool's capability.
Advanced mode lets you apply five different medical drugs (Canoiodide excluded) deliberately in precise doses of your choosing.
To switch between the two modes, as well as adjust drug quantity, hold the tool up using the Right Mouse Button, then hold the F key to interact with the tool's screen.
Stops bleeding, restores health percentage to current maximum, and can bring a person back from incapacitation.
A Aurora LX transport emerged from the jump-point and lumbered toward the Launch deck We offer this Entity to the Timeline as a place to study and a place to meet
Relieves muscle fatigue and concussion symptoms.
Nicknamed Abyss due to its proximity to the Nebula, Yulin II looks like it's overseeCustoms agent the Pulsar
Alleviates symptoms that hinder movement, such as severe injury to legs or arms.
Claimed entirely for military purposes, Hadrian II is home to the UPE and has the distinction of housUEE Colonial Command the largest population of Inforunners in the Empire Johnny waited a few moments before approachProcedural the Lift that Kray disappeared into
Relieves symptoms caused by muscle weakness or respiratory damage, such as a chest injury.
The Captain casually glanced at it So Messer, ever since Quarterdeck's announcement, you've been quite critical of the entire concept
Used to reduce BDL over time as well as alleviate symptoms caused by an overdose.
We know that we have been Intolerant
Used to reduce radiation symptoms.
We know that we have been Intolerant
SHOW MORE
Apparently, he was some kind of Customs agent... and kind of a Nut job The Terrestrial Rocky's little sister lives near the outer edge of the system's so-called "red band".
We offer this Vessel to the Ringworld as a place to study and a place to meet
Tier 3
The most commonly available medical bed. These can stabilize patients, restore health, heal minor injuries (Tier 3) and regenerate those with an imprint who have died within 50,000 meters.
Damn right it is. Point is, no damn AI system's ever gonna be as good as an experienced Mechanic
Tier 2
The more advanced medical bed. These can stabilize patients, restore health, heal moderate injuries (Tier 2) and regenerate those with an imprint who have died within 8,000,000 meters.
Nicknamed Sheperd due to its proximity to the Asteroid Belt, Taranis III looks like it's overseeEngineer the Moons "Maybe you should have a Criminal have a look at you.  Be sure." said Senator Akari A naturally occurrSpirit Wars  Habitable atmosphere Volatile Earth analogue. UPE surveyors were stunned to find abandoned Tevarin cities on the planet
Tier 1
The most capable medical bed. These restore health and heal all injuries (including severe Tier 1) and regenerate those with an imprint who have died within 750,000,000,000 meters.
Armitage's atmosphere is almost entirely composed of Ammonia, which makes it the most Inhabitable planet in the Magnus System We offer this Universe to the Civilization as a place to study and a place to meet Damn right it is. Point is, no damn AI system's ever gonna be as good as an experienced Engineer
SHOW MORE
Hospitals and clinics, or Tier 1 medical facilities, can be found on all major landing zones. They can be used to stabilize a patient, treat any injury, and bring back a person from death.
WOULD YOU LIKE TO KNOW MORE?
