Secure Yours Now
In this dimension
Energy crates
Quantum drive
BACK to RSI
by RSI
For altruistic heroes who dive into danger without hesitation, RSI applauds your mission and is proud to present the Apollo Triage and Medivac, two life-saving ships with peerless mobile medical technology.
We asked the Vehicle and Gameplay teams a few questions about these two RSI medical ships. Here are the answers, straight from the devs themselves.
If you’re interested in the full breadth of medical gameplay, be sure to check out the Design Brief: Medical Gameplay, which explores both the current systems and what’s planned for the future.
Does the Apollo come with MedBed modules by default?
Yes, both the Medivac and Triage come equipped with two Tier 3 MedBed modules as standard, one in each of the ship’s two module slots (left and right). Every pledged Apollo also includes two Tier 2 and two Tier 1 MedBed modules that can be swapped into either slot.
What advantages does equipping a Tier 2 or Tier 3 MedBed module provide compared to a Tier 1?
Tier 2 and Tier 3 MedBeds, while capable of healing less-severe injuries, provide benefits in terms of capacity and throughput of regenerations. For example, more beds means more people can regen without queuing (albeit in line with the beds’ tiers, as lower tiers have significantly lower regen ranges).
Following the recent changes to medical gameplay spawn range and cost, how will the Apollo function if I equip two MedBed modules of different tiers?
Cost is dependent on the bed, not the ship. In future iterations of medical gameplay, players will be able to select the bed and location before respawning, allowing more choice.
What are the reasons for the increase in size since the Apollo’s initial concept?
As with a lot of our older concepts, certain aspects of gameplay have changed or been revised, requiring adjusted metrics. In particular, the required space and angles for things like gurneys traversing through the ship and using the rear ramp.
With the Apollo’s size having increased considerably, how is this reflected in handling, weaponry, and component loadout?
The ship’s handling has been adjusted to suit its larger frame. To compensate, the shield generator quantity has doubled to four Size 2 shields. The missile and gun hardpoints have been increased as well to match both the current game design and the ship’s larger size.
Are the Apollo paints compatible between the Triage and Medivac versions?
Yes, paints are compatible between both variants.
Do the Apollo ships have emergency lights?
Yes, the lights are controllable via a dashboard button, like the Terrapin Medic.
Does the Apollo provide dedicated storage for medical tools?
There are two weapon rack areas with nine slots: three for pistols, three for rifles, shotguns, or SMGs, and three for utility items (including, but not limited to, medical tools). There are also dedicated storage shelves for MedGel canisters in each module.
