Anvil Paladin
Esperia Stinger
Buzzing with erase
Q&A: Paladin & Stinger
2024-09-03 19:53:03
The Anvil Paladin is a gunship truly deserving of its moniker. This flying stronghold delivers immense multi-turreted firepower alongside heavy armor for sustained barrage and ultimate fortification, as you lead your fleet into new systems and beyond.
Since the original concept reveal, have there been any notable changes or additions to the Paladin?
The main noticeable change to the Paladin has been the adjustment of the lower deck to accommodate a dedicated 4-SCU cargo grid.
How does the Paladin differ from existing gunships?
The Paladin’s primary competitor is the Redeemer, but they tackle the gunship role in different ways. The Paladin favors firepower and durability over the more agile Redeemer that, while packing slightly less firepower, has the edge in avoiding incoming fire.
Is the Paladin intended to shine more in coordinated group play, or can it still be effective for smaller crews?
Whether being flown solo or in a group, the Paladin is capable of delivering firepower to where it’s needed. A solo player has slaved control of the two remote wing turrets, providing firepower in the forward arc, but this is improved with additional players taking control of the turrets to provide full 360° coverage.
What interior features does the Paladin provide for its crew?
The lower deck houses an armory equipped with suit lockers and weapon racks, while the upper deck provides crew amenities including a food machine, toilet, bunk beds, and personal storage.
The Esperia Stinger is a heavy fighter where durability and deadly force combine in this closely replicated Vanduul powerhouse. Fortified armor and robust wings withstand damage, while a customizable loadout of Human and Vanduul weaponry delivers it.
Aside from its aggressive appearance, what characteristics distinguish the Stinger from Human ships?
The Stinger is a relatively faithful recreation of the original Vanduul Stinger, so while externally and internally you will see a very strong alien aesthetic, there are touches that Esperia added for Human comfort, such as the weapon rack and relay access.
Does it come equipped with alien-style weapons, and which of its gun and missile components are bespoke versus swappable?
Six of the seven guns found on the Stinger are generic swappable weapons, coming with Esperia laser cannons. Only the single Size 5 weapon is bespoke and locked to the ship. The missile racks, whilst bespoke, allow the missiles to be swapped with any other suitable S2 missile.
How does the Stinger compare in handling and firepower to Human-designed Heavy Fighters, such as the Ares, F8C Lightning, or Guardian?
Due to the sheer size and firepower of the Stinger, its handling feels much heavier than the Human-designed Heavy Fighters at this time. As such, it’s suited to taking on other Heavy Fighters and larger targets.
Will the Stinger feature an updated MFD UI?
Yes! The Stinger has an updated Esperia MFD style incorporating typefaces and graphical elements from the Vanduul language.
With the release of the Stinger, are there any updates planned for the other Vanduul replicas, such as the Blade and Glaive?
We still plan to bring these over to the PU once Squadron 42 has been released.
