November 2025
Subscriber Promotions
The jump point to Nyx is almost open, with citizens from Stanton and Pyro preparing to make the dangerous journey to explore the Levski settlement, Glaciem ring asteroid belt, and more.
With so much adventure on the horizon, we’re giving Subscribers the perfect ship to traverse and survive the upcoming challenges - the ferocious Mirai Guardian. Alongside the original Mirai Heavy Fighter, Imperator Subs can also fly the interdiction-focused QI and harder-hitting MX variants.
This month’s Flair is inspired by the infamous Headhunters gang as the Pyro Must Burn storyline heads to its dramatic conclusion.
Misfit ‘Bonefire’ Jacket
- Durable synthetic leather combines with anarchic stylings for a jacket meant to send a message. Favored by members of the infamous Headhunters gang, the Bonefire edition features a stylized image of skulls and spines surrounded by red streaks on the back.
- Current Centurion-level Subscribers get this item as part of their subscriptions.
- ﻿This item will be delivered in an upcoming patch.
Warlord Throne
- Reign over your subjects from the haughty heights of your very own throne. Fabricated from a disused engine, animal bones, scavenged metal parts, and a swathe of vibrant red feathers, this chair's menacing presence is reinforced by a golden-plated skull sculpted into the back.
- Current Imperator-level Subscribers get this item and the above Centurion-level item as part of their subscriptions.
- ﻿This item will be delivered in an upcoming patch.
Headhunter Collection
- This pack contains both the Misfit ‘Bonefire’ Jacket featuring a stylized image of skulls and spines inspired by the Headhunters gang, and Warlord Throne, fabricated from a disused engine, animal bones, scavenged metal parts, and a swathe of vibrant red feathers.
- This item is available for all Subscribers to pledge for in the dedicated Subscriber Store.
- ﻿These items will be delivered in an upcoming patch.
Confront locator unify paradigm shift
Centurion Subscribers: Mirai Guardian (with 12-month insurance)
Mirai Guardian: The Guardian takes Mirai’s performance-obsessed approach to shipbuilding and focuses it on the Heavy Fighter market. Built to take on the biggest threats in the ‘verse, it’s more than a match for anything you’ll come across in outlaw systems.
Imperator Subscribers: Mirai Guardian, MX, and QI (with 24-month insurance)
Mirai Guardian QI and MX: The QI and MX take the heavy hitting Guardian chassis and focus it for specialized pursuits. The QI interdictor strands enemy ships before taking them out, while the MX amps up the already ample firepower to make a devastatingly single-minded fighter.
Mirai Guardian: The Guardian takes Mirai’s performance-obsessed approach to shipbuilding and focuses it on the Heavy Fighter market. Built to take on the biggest threats in the ‘verse, it’s more than a match for anything you’ll come across in outlaw systems.
MERCHANDISE DISCOUNT
Two continuous discount levels are available to all Subscribers in the Merch
Store. Centurion Subscribers receive 10% off merchandise, while Imperator
Subscribers receive 15% off. Take advantage of this perk and peruse the
selection of available merchandise including jackets, hoodies, shirts, mugs,
hats, mousepads, stickers, and more.
Merchandise Store
SUBSCRIBER STORE
All previous flair items going back to 2014 are available to pledge in the
Subscriber Store. You can fill in any gaps, pick up store-only items, or
grab extras to gift to non-Subscribers from the My Hangar section of your
RSI profile.
Shop Now
NOT A SUBSCRIBER?
If you would like to receive this flair as part of a subscription, you can subscribe before November 11, 2025 (20:00 UTC). Otherwise, you can pick up these and previous months’ flair (going back to 2014) in the dedicated Subscriber Store.
Subscribe Now
