IAE 2955 Referral Bonus
For the first time since its 2017 debut, the Star Kitten Dragonfly is back! Make a statement when you arrive at the Expo hall, courtesy of the IAE 2955 Referral bonus. When you refer a friend, you can receive a Star Kitten Edition Drake Dragonfly for free!
What is the referral bonus?
The referral bonus gives you free gear for getting new players into Star Citizen. This time, you will receive a Star Kitten Edition Drake Dragonfly with a 10-year insurance policy when you refer a friend. The player you refer will receive a Star Kitten Racing Gear Pack.
The bonus is granted when a new player uses your referral code and pledges for a starter pack or ship (minimum $40) on the Pledge Store.
The usual referral bonuses apply too, including 50,000 aUEC and a point in the regular Referral Program.
This bonus promotion runs until December 5, 2025, 20:00 UTC.
How do I refer a friend?
Your friends should add your personal referral code when creating their new RSI accounts. Once an account is created, a new player has 24-hours to add a referral code to their account to claim their rewards if they did not add it at account creation. More info on this process can be found here.
Where do I find my personal referral code?
You can find it on the Referral Program Page. Your Referral Code is unique and can be shared anywhere you like, including on social media, via email, or on your website.
What’s in it for me?
Recruiting one friend during the promotion gets you a Star Kitten Edition Drake Dragonfly, the perfect snub ship for those looking to pair practicality with head-turning style. Dual-mode conversion allows the Dragonfly to operate on the ground or in space, and a rear-facing second seat means you can even take a passenger! The Star Kitten Edition Drake Dragonfly includes a 10-year insurance policy.
What's in it for them?
The player you refer during the promotion will receive a Star Kitten Racing Gear Pack. This pack includes a Star Kitten racing suit with a helmet and a Gemini LH86 ‘Takahashi Racing’ pistol.
Can I earn more than one Star Kitten Edition Drake Dragonfly?
No. Only one Star Kitten Edition Drake Dragonfly can be earned per player.
What is the regular Referral Program?
The regular Referral Program empowers you to become a driving force behind the growth of the Star Citizen community. Plus, you’ll unlock cool in-game rewards, from exclusive hangar items to ships. The Referral Program Page details everything currently available.
When do I receive my referral bonus?
The veteran player will receive their bonus immediately when the new player they are referring pledges for a starter pack or ship (minimum $40) on the Pledge Store. The new player's bonus will be granted once the promotion ends on December 5. Bonuses may be distributed in waves, so if you don't see it show up right away, it should populate soon.
Are there any limitations to the referral bonus?
Yes. The Star Kitten Edition Drake Dragonfly given out as a referral bonus is non-meltable and non-giftable. It includes a 10-year insurance policy.
Do the standard Referral Program and the limited IAE 2955 Referral Bonus work together?
Yes. All referrals gained during the bonus period go towards your total in the standard Referral Program.
Where can I find more information on the Referral Program?
Click here to check out our regular referral program.
Click here to find the Referral Program FAQ.
