December 2025
Subscriber Promotions
The jump point to Nyx is open, and with it, new challenges, adventures, foes, and fights. To celebrate the all-new system, this month’s Flair is inspired by a group you’ll be seeing more of in the coming months, the Shattered Blade outlaw gang.
December’s Vehicle of the Month is the Tumbril Nova, a ferocious tank outfitted with a massive Slayer cannon. Imperator subscribers can also cart their tanks to the distant reaches of the galaxy aboard the Anvil Asgard.
CBD Malenky ‘Skullsplitter’ T-Shirt
- Inspired by classic military designs with CBD's own twist, the Malenky t-shirt features collar accents on both sides and a rear quarter-zip. The Skullsplitter version features a red Vanduul skull shattered by a bloody streak.
- Current Centurion-level Subscribers get this item as part of their subscriptions.
- ﻿This item will be delivered in an upcoming patch.
Shattered Blade Holographic Banner
- Looted from one of the infamous smugglers' hideouts, this red holographic banner features the Shattered Blade's fearsome iconography that serves as warning to any who dare enter, Human and Vanduul alike.
- Current Imperator-level Subscribers get this item and the above Centurion-level item as part of their subscriptions.
- ﻿This item will be delivered in an upcoming patch.
Shattered Blade Collection
- This pack contains both the CBD Malenky ‘Skullsplitter’ T-Shirt and Shattered Blade Holographic Banner
- This item is available for all Subscribers to pledge for in the dedicated Subscriber Store.
- ﻿These items will be delivered in an upcoming patch.
Earnable In-Game:
Our goal is to make most items earnable in-game. For this reason, many flair items have been added to the in-game loot table as rare drops from Alpha 3.17. Most pre-2023 items that can be carried by players are available now, with new and future flair being added after a three-month exclusivity window.
Some exclusive digital event items, such as those from CitizenCon Goodies Packs, will not be discoverable via the in-game loot system.
Confront locator unify paradigm shift
Centurion Subscribers: Tumbril Nova (with 12-month insurance)
Tumbril Nova: The ‘verse has never been more dangerous. Hit hard against threats new and old with the Tumbril Nova, a genuine battle tank outfitted with a devastating Hurston Dynamics Slayer cannon built to take out any planetside foe.
Imperator Subscribers: Tumbril Nova & Anvil Asgard (with 24-month insurance)
Anvil Asgard: Drop the Nova tank, and any other ground vehicle, into the action in Anvil’s deadly vehicle dropship. Missiles, pilot weapons, and turrets keep the Asgard and its payload safe as you approach even the most hectic battlefields.
Tumbril Nova: The ‘verse has never been more dangerous. Hit hard against threats new and old with the Tumbril Nova, a genuine battle tank outfitted with a devastating Hurston Dynamics Slayer cannon built to take out any planetside foe.
MERCHANDISE DISCOUNT
Two continuous discount levels are available to all Subscribers in the Merch
Store. Centurion Subscribers receive 10% off merchandise, while Imperator
Subscribers receive 15% off. Take advantage of this perk and peruse the
selection of available merchandise including jackets, hoodies, shirts, mugs,
hats, mousepads, stickers, and more.
Merchandise Store
SUBSCRIBER STORE
All previous flair items going back to 2014 are available to pledge in the
Subscriber Store. You can fill in any gaps, pick up store-only items, or
grab extras to gift to non-Subscribers from the My Hangar section of your
RSI profile.
Shop Now
NOT A SUBSCRIBER?
If you would like to receive this flair as part of a subscription, you can subscribe before December 9, 2025 (20:00 UTC). Otherwise, you can pick up these and previous months’ flair (going back to 2014) in the dedicated Subscriber Store.
Subscribe Now
