Secure Yours Now
In this dimension
Energy crates
Quantum drive
BACK to RSI
GREYCAT MDC
GREYCAT MTC
by Greycat Industrial
The first ground vehicle with a point defense system, the MDC’s automated PDT takes on incoming ordnance that descends to ruin your day.
We reached out to the Vehicle and Gameplay teams to learn more about this latest offering from Greycat Industrial, along with the new type of point defense turret (PDT). Here are the answers, straight from the devs themselves.
This is the first ground vehicle with a PDT. What inspired the team to create this type of vehicle, and what gameplay scenarios does it best serve?
The MDC was envisioned to be a support vehicle for players wishing to help defend locations as well as basic automatic defense for solo players traversing battlefields.
While we see the MDC as being ideal for helping defend a location, its restrictions on engagement and weapon range still leaves space for the heavier anti-air vehicles, such as the Ballista and Centurion.
The ballistic Gatling PDT is a new type. How does it compare to existing point defense systems in the game?
The Gatling PDT performs very similarly to the laser version once the respective advantages and drawbacks of ballistic guns are considered. For example, their ability to penetrate shields is balanced by their limited ammunition capacity.
Does the MDC's PDT target on-foot characters and ground vehicles, or only aerial threats?
By design, the PDTs in-game only target torpedoes, missiles, and small ships (in this priority order).
Can the PDT be swapped for other types?
Yes, all PDTs of the same size are interchangeable. We currently have S1 laser, ballistic, and missile PDTs, with all options now available for purchase via in-game shops.
Does the PDT remain active when the player leaves the driver’s seat, or must the player remain seated for the system to function?
As long as the vehicle is powered and has sufficient energy allocated to the weapon energy pool (adjustable via the engineering MFD), the PDT will remain operational, even without a driver in the seat.
What interior features does the MDC have?
The MDC has a cut down interior based heavily on the MTC. While the space previously used for armor and mission crates is now occupied by the PDT mount, it still includes a weapon rack and personal storage for the crew’s essential gear.
