Secure Yours Now
In this dimension
Energy crates
Quantum drive
BACK to RSI
by RSI
With beginner-friendly functionality and a back-to-basics interior, the Salvation is exactly that to those who dream of finding their tomorrow in yesterday’s wrecks.
We asked the Vehicle and Gameplay teams a few questions about this new RSI salvage starter. Here are the answers, straight from the devs themselves.
If you’re new to salvage or looking to refresh your skills, be sure to check out our updated Salvage Guide.
The Salvation is positioned as an entry-level ship in the Salvage career path. What key features make it an ideal starting point for aspiring salvagers?
The Salvation has a dedicated salvage head setup that focuses on quickly gathering Recycled Material Composite (RMC). It might not be the biggest ship with the biggest tools, but it allows players to get a good understanding of the Salvage profession, including hull scraping and structural salvage. However, while the Salvation is capable of structural salvage, its limited cargo space means it’s not the intended focus of the ship.
What’s the Salvation’s total SCU capacity (including buffer), and is it large enough for profitable solo runs or better suited for group salvage operations?
The Salvation is designed as a starter for players who want to try out the Salvage profession on their own. The internal storage is befitting of its size with a capacity of 6 SCU alongside the external 6 SCU cargo grid. It’s built around the entry career missions and allows players to salvage small ships comfortably. However, with its focus on hull scraping and its maneuverability, there are some use cases in larger salvage groups.
What types of construction materials will it produce, and what size ships can it structurally salvage?
The Salvation is a Light Salvage ship that is able to recover "Rubble", a dense construction material with low yield but faster refinement time. Due to Structural Salvage not being its focus, the largest ships we intend for it to fracture successfully are around the size of a MISC Freelancer.
Does it come with bespoke or swappable salvage heads?
The Salvation has a bespoke setup designed for new players. This means that it has unique salvage heads and scraper attachments that cannot be exchanged.
How do players access the filler station?
In the Salvation, the filler station is operated via a screen inside the cockpit, which is used to manage and distribute salvage commodity crates.
