Secure Yours Now
In this dimension
Energy crates
Quantum drive
BACK to RSI
Drake Clipper
by Drake
Introducing the Drake Clipper, a singularity in the landscape of space travel. As unique and varied as your daily hustle, with the goods and gear to see you through almost anything, from crafting to hauling, to combat and more. Step out alone and find purpose, adventure, and yourself in this master of many trades - no crew required.
We asked the Vehicle and Gameplay teams a few questions about the Clipper. Here are the answers, straight from the devs themselves.
What kinds of players would get the most out of the Clipper and its capabilities?
As a generalist ship, the Clipper is naturally designed for generalist players - those who don’t want to specialize too deeply in one career or want to be prepared for multiple eventualities over the course of a game session.
The Clipper feels like it sits between the Cutter and the Corsair. Was it designed to fill that middle ground?
While occupying the middle ground in size, the Clipper operates in a slightly different position role-wise to both ships. Designed as a ‘generalist’ ship, it allows the sole occupant to experience multiple game loops from a single chassis.
What kind of on-board amenities does the Clipper offer? Could it serve as a solo home base for extended operations away from civilized space?
The Clipper has multiple amenities that suit the generalist role, with a medical bed, crafting/fabrication machine, 12 SCU of storage, accessible components, and full habitation setup. These features allow players to spend extended durations away from their home location.
How does the Clipper perform in combat? What do the its firepower and protective measures look like?
While not a dedicated combat ship, the classic Drake design trait of an abundance of firepower provides four Size 3 weapon hardpoints and eight Size 3 missile hardpoints, allowing flexibility in weapon choice.
With a 12 SCU cargo grid, what is the Clipper made for in terms of hauling?
The modest cargo hold of the Clipper means it’s not designed to be a dedicated hauler, but it’s perfect for keeping supplies on board or storing any goods you come across on your travels.
Does the Clipper include any unique features that make it stand out in its class?
The Clipper’s uniqueness isn’t down to a single feature, more the combination of available options in a single chassis.
What level of medical facility does the Clipper have, and what’s it intended for?
The medical bed is a standard Tier 3 bed, designed to help the owner of the ship heal injuries as well as serving as a regen location if things take a turn for the worse.
Can players store MedGel or supplies onboard on dedicated shelves?
Unlike ships like the RSI Apollo, there are no dedicated shelves, so MedGel must be stored via the ship’s inventory.
Does it feature an armor closet alongside the weapon rack?
Yes, it’s located on the mid deck, next to the scissor lift.
It has large wings, which suggests good atmospheric lift. Does it rely on VTOL thrusters, or does it behave more like a plane in atmospheric conditions?
The Clipper’s large wings will provide plenty of lift when control surfaces are implemented in the game. There are no dedicated VTOL thrusters on the ship.
Are the long wings foldable mid-flight with the ALT+K Transform bind?
No, the Clipper is designed to only be flown with its wings deployed in the horizontal position. As such, they are not independently togglable during flight.
Do the wings have to be folded to be able to land in tricky spaces, such as small hangars, or can I land with the wings fully deployable if I want to?
The wings-folded state is tied to the landing-gear state to ensure that, when landing in hangars, there is enough clearance, as otherwise it would extend beyond the safe areas within hangars.
Once crafting gameplay is implemented, what types of items or equipment could the Clipper produce?
On its initial implementation, we aim to include the ability to craft smaller personal items, but given the ongoing development of the crafting system, we expect the variety of things it can produce to continue to evolve over time.
Can the Clipper's integrated crafting station use resources directly from the ship's cargo grid, or do I need to load the crafting station manually?
The current design intent for crafting allows both of these options.
