January 2026
Subscriber Promotions
Welcome to 2956! As we enter the new year, the ‘verse is by far the best it’s ever been, with three vast star systems to explore, countless thrilling missions to tackle, nearly 200 vehicles to discover, and untold adventure at every corner. To help you get into the action, every subscriber can take off in January aboard the classic Aegis Sabre, while Imperator subs can also fly the Firebird and Peregrine variants.
This month’s Flair is the long-awaited CC’s Conversions Azreal helmet, designed to strike fear into the heart of anyone unlucky enough to cross your path.
CC’s Conversions Azreal Helmet
- Look the part when flying through the dangerous reaches of space. The Azreal helmet features the grim visage of a skull peering out from beneath the visor.
- Current Centurion-level Subscribers get this item as part of their subscriptions.
- ﻿This item will be delivered in an upcoming patch.
CC’s Conversions Azreal ‘Ruby’ Helmet
- Look the part when flying through the dangerous reaches of space. The Azreal ‘Ruby’ helmet features a shiny red skull peering out from beneath the visor.
- Current Imperator-level Subscribers get this item and the above Centurion-level item as part of their subscriptions.
- ﻿This item will be delivered in an upcoming patch.
CC’s Conversions Azreal Collection
- This duo pack includes the classic and 'Ruby' Azreal Helmet variants, each featuring a grim skull peering out from beneath the visor.
- This item is available for all Subscribers to pledge for in the dedicated Subscriber Store.
- ﻿These items will be delivered in an upcoming patch.
Earnable In-Game:
Our goal is to make most items earnable in-game. For this reason, subscriber flair may be added after a three-month exclusivity window.
Confront locator unify paradigm shift
Centurion Subscribers: Aegis Sabre (with 12-month insurance)
Aegis Sabre: A bona fide naval classic, the Aegis Sabre has seen action in countless battles for Humanity’s freedom. Built as a rapid-responder to deep-space attacks, it’s more than capable of tackling the most dangerous threats in the galaxy.
Imperator Subscribers: Aegis Sabre plus Firebird and Peregrine Variants (with 24-month insurance)
Aegis Sabre plus Firebird and Peregrine variants: Imperator subscribers can fly three of the extended Sabre series throughout January. Alongside the classic original, they can hit enemies harder with the missile-focused Firebird before hitting the circuit in the speed-focused Peregrine racer.
MERCHANDISE DISCOUNT
Two continuous discount levels are available to all Subscribers in the Merch
Store. Centurion Subscribers receive 10% off merchandise, while Imperator
Subscribers receive 15% off. Take advantage of this perk and peruse the
selection of available merchandise including jackets, hoodies, shirts, mugs,
hats, mousepads, stickers, and more.
Merchandise Store
SUBSCRIBER STORE
All previous flair items going back to 2014 are available to pledge in the
Subscriber Store. You can fill in any gaps, pick up store-only items, or
grab extras to gift to non-Subscribers from the My Hangar section of your
RSI profile.
Shop Now
NOT A SUBSCRIBER?
If you would like to receive this flair as part of a subscription, you can subscribe before January 13, 2026 (20:00 UTC). Otherwise, you can pick up these and previous months’ flair (going back to 2014) in the dedicated Subscriber Store.
Subscribe Now
