March 2026
Subscriber Promotions
Alpha 4.7 is live in the PU later this month, and with it, cracking new locations and missions around the Nyx system. To help you survive the subterranean challenges, this month’s Flair and Vehicles of the Month are suitably medical themed.
ParaMed ‘Cyanosis’ Medical Device
- The ParaMed from CureLife is a professional-grade emergency medical device designed to stabilize patients suffering from potentially life-threatening injuries. Offering extremely accurate diagnostics and dosing, it treats more patients and offers longer relief with less risk of overdose. The ‘Cyanosis’ edition features a bold blue color.
- Current Centurion-level Subscribers get this item as part of their subscriptions.
CureLife Field Medic Kit
- Medical emergencies can happen any time, any place. Be prepared with this Field Medic Kit from CureLife, which provides convenient and portable storage for a ParaMed Medical Device, Pancea MedGel refills, and additional medicine injectors. Kit comes pre-stocked with refills and injectors.
- Current Imperator-level Subscribers get this item and the above Centurion-level item as part of their subscriptions.
CureLife ‘Cyanosis’ Medical Set
- Be prepared for the worst with the CureLife Medical Set, containing the ParaMed Medical Device and Field Medical Kit, both in matching blue and white ‘Cyanosis’ edition. Kit comes pre-stocked with refills and injectors.
- This pack is available for all subscribers to pledge for in the Subscriber-Exclusive Store.
Earnable In-Game:
Our goal is to make most items earnable in-game. For this reason, subscriber flair may be added after a three-month exclusivity window.
Confront locator unify paradigm shift
Centurion Subscribers: RSI Ursa Medivac (with 12-month insurance)
RSI Ursa Medivac: Built to endure the harshest environments, the Ursa Medivac is a beacon of light in the most hopeless situations. Fast, sturdy, and outfitted to recover even the most injured patients, it’s a vital tool on any dangerous operation.
Imperator Subscribers: RSI Apollo Medivac & RSI Ursa Medivac (with 24-month insurance)
RSI Ursa Medivac: Built to endure the harshest environments, the Ursa Medivac is a beacon of light in the most hopeless situations. Fast, sturdy, and outfitted to recover even the most injured patients, it’s a vital tool on any dangerous operation.
RSI Apollo Medivac: The Medivac is RSI’s reliable Apollo chassis fortified for medical evacuation. Supporting Tier 1, 2, and 3 medbeds, it can be outfitted to stabilize and extract, heal minor wounds, or even treat life-threatening injuries depending on the needs of the mission.
MERCHANDISE DISCOUNT
Two continuous discount levels are available to all Subscribers in the Merch
Store. Centurion Subscribers receive 10% off merchandise, while Imperator
Subscribers receive 15% off. Take advantage of this perk and peruse the
selection of available merchandise.
Merchandise Store
SUBSCRIBER STORE
All previous flair items going back to 2014 are available to pledge in the
Subscriber Store. You can fill in any gaps, pick up store-only items, or
grab extras to gift to non-Subscribers from the My Hangar section of your
RSI profile.
Shop Now
NOT A SUBSCRIBER?
If you would like to receive this flair as part of a subscription, you can subscribe before March 10, 2026 (20:00 UTC). Otherwise, you can pick up these and previous months’ flair (going back to 2014) in the dedicated Subscriber Store.
Subscribe Now
