February 2026
Subscriber Promotions
Welcome to February, Subscribers! Love (and mold) are in the air this month, so we’re helping you embrace the most heartfelt of holidays with Coramor-themed Flair.
Don’t get too cozy though, as Levski needs your help to solve its ongoing outbreak. To get you to Nyx and start tackling the epidemic, all Subscribers can fly MISC’s heavily defended hauler, the Starlancer MAX. Imperator subs can face the threats of the system head-on with the TAC gunship variant.
Pink Heart Lamp
- Emitting a soft, sensual pink glow, the curvaceous Pink Heart Lamp is sure to shine a light on any romantic evening.
- Current Centurion-level Subscribers get this item as part of their subscriptions.
Carmilla Nightstand
- Bring a touch of class to your bedside with this exquisitely designed table. Standing atop two curled legs resembling a heart, this ruby tabletop is perfect for reminding you that love is always within reach.
- Current Imperator-level Subscribers get this item and the above Centurion-level item as part of their subscriptions.
Coramor Décor Collection
- Add a romantic ambience to your hangar with this collection of Coramor-themed décor. Includes four Red Heart Plushies, two Carmilla Nightstands, two Pink Heart Lamps, a Coramor ’55 Loveseat, a Heartseeker Double Bed, a Hello Sunshine Cheeky Planter, and a Heartseeker poster.
- This item is available for all Subscribers to pledge for in the dedicated Subscriber Store.
Earnable In-Game:
Our goal is to make most items earnable in-game. For this reason, subscriber flair may be added after a three-month exclusivity window.
Confront locator unify paradigm shift
Centurion Subscribers: MISC Starlancer MAX (with 12-month insurance)
Starlancer MAX: Built for hauling to the most distant and dangerous sectors of space, the Starlancer MAX is the perfect companion on your intersystem adventures. Combining a huge cargo hold and deadly weapons, you can travel safely wherever the mission takes you.
Imperator Subscribers: MISC Starlancer MAX & TAC (with 24-month insurance)
Starlancer TAC: The TAC takes the heavyweight Starlancer chassis and outfits it for pure action. While it lacks the cargo capacity of its sister ship, the added med beds, jump seats, snub hangar, and even more firepower make it a formidable force against any sized adversary.
Starlancer MAX: Built for hauling to the most distant and dangerous sectors of space, the Starlancer MAX is the perfect companion on your intersystem adventures. Combining a huge cargo hold and deadly weapons, you can travel safely wherever the mission takes you.
MERCHANDISE DISCOUNT
Two continuous discount levels are available to all Subscribers in the Merch
Store. Centurion Subscribers receive 10% off merchandise, while Imperator
Subscribers receive 15% off. Take advantage of this perk and peruse the
selection of available merchandise including jackets, hoodies, shirts, mugs,
hats, mousepads, stickers, and more.
Merchandise Store
SUBSCRIBER STORE
All previous flair items going back to 2014 are available to pledge in the
Subscriber Store. You can fill in any gaps, pick up store-only items, or
grab extras to gift to non-Subscribers from the My Hangar section of your
RSI profile.
Shop Now
NOT A SUBSCRIBER?
If you would like to receive this flair as part of a subscription, you can subscribe before February 10, 2026 (20:00 UTC). Otherwise, you can pick up these and previous months’ flair (going back to 2014) in the dedicated Subscriber Store.
Subscribe Now
