April 2026
Subscriber Promotions
Following the excitement of Alpha 4.7: Welcome to the Rock, April welcomes Captains of Industry, a Free Fly, and more. With so much going on, there’s bound to be a little misbehaving, so take the law into your own hands throughout April with the latest Vehicles of the Month.
If you prefer less-legitimate pursuits, you can strike fear into the hearts of your targets with April’s Flair.
CC’s Conversions Azrael ‘Sapphire’ Helmet
- When flying through the dangerous reaches of space, it's common for brave pilots to routinely face down death. Now, with the Azrael helmet from CC's Conversions, you can look the part with the grim visage of a skull peering out from beneath the visor of this otherwise normal-looking helmet.
- Current Centurion-level Subscribers get this item as part of their subscriptions.
PSX Pistol Case
- Remain discreet yet ready with this sleek case capable of holding a pistol and several attachments. It features a hard outer shell and an inside lined with a special rigid polyurethane foam designed to securely hold a wide variety of attachments. Case includes a Behring S-38 Pistol and accessories.
- Current Imperator-level Subscribers get this item and the above Centurion-level item as part of their subscriptions.
Contractor’s Kit
- Take on “jobs” around the ‘verse in a professional and discreet manner with the Contractor’s Kit, featuring the dramatic CC’s Conversions Azrael ‘Sapphire’ Helmet and convenient PSX Pistol Case stocked with a Behring S-38 Pistol and accessories.
- This pack is available for all subscribers to pledge for in the Subscriber-Exclusive Store.
Earnable In-Game:
Our goal is to make most items earnable in-game. For this reason, subscriber flair may be added after a three-month exclusivity window.
Confront locator unify paradigm shift
Centurion Subscribers: Anvil Hawk (with 12-month insurance)
Anvil Hawk: Small but mighty, the Anvil Hawk boasts comprehensive lethal and non-lethal firepower in a compact frame. Whether fighting to kill or contain, its combination of lasers, distortion cannons, and EMP generator makes it a versatile companion in any battle.
Imperator Subscribers: Drake Cutlass Blue & Anvil Hawk (with 24-month insurance)
Anvil Hawk: Small but mighty, the Anvil Hawk boasts comprehensive lethal and non-lethal firepower in a compact frame. Whether fighting to kill or contain, its combination of lasers, distortion cannons, and EMP generator makes it a versatile companion in any battle.
Drake Cutlass Blue: Thanks to its integrated quantum dampener and heavy weaponry, the Cutlass Blue is built for bringing in the bad guys. Plus, it benefits from the well-proven Cutlass hardiness and a distinct flashing blue light on top for maximum effect.
MERCHANDISE DISCOUNT
Two continuous discount levels are available to all Subscribers in the Merch
Store. Centurion Subscribers receive 10% off merchandise, while Imperator
Subscribers receive 15% off. Take advantage of this perk and peruse the
selection of available merchandise.
Merchandise Store
SUBSCRIBER STORE
All previous flair items going back to 2014 are available to pledge in the
Subscriber Store. You can fill in any gaps, pick up store-only items, or
grab extras to gift to non-Subscribers from the My Hangar section of your
RSI profile.
Shop Now
NOT A SUBSCRIBER?
If you would like to receive this flair as part of a subscription, you can subscribe before April 14, 2026 (20:00 UTC). Otherwise, you can pick up these and previous months’ flair (going back to 2014) in the dedicated Subscriber Store.
Subscribe Now
