Coramor 2956 Referral Bonus
Glide into the season of love this Coramor with our latest Referral Bonus! When you refer a friend, you can receive a Consolidated Outland HoverQuad with Lovestruck paint for free! Whether meeting your significant other for a lunar rendezvous, or even if the relationship is on the rocks, this sweet ride lets you take it all in stride. In addition, the player you recruit can wear their heart on their sleeve with a Greycat Aril "Red Alert" armor set that's sure to turn heads at every spaceport.
What is the referral bonus?
The referral bonus gives you free gear for getting new players into Star Citizen. This time, you will receive a Consolidated Outland HoverQuad with Lovestruck paint when you refer a friend. The player you refer will receive a Greycat Aril "Red Alert" armor set.
The bonus is granted when a new player uses your referral code and pledges for a starter pack or ship (minimum $40) on the Pledge Store.
The usual referral bonuses apply too, including 50,000 aUEC and a point in the regular Referral Program.
This bonus promotion runs until February 23, 2026, 20:00 UTC.
How do I refer a friend?
Your friends should add your personal referral code when creating their new RSI accounts. Once an account is created, a new player has 24-hours to add a referral code to their account to claim their rewards if they did not add it at account creation. More info on this process can be found here.
Where do I find my personal referral code?
You can find it on the Referral Program Page. Your Referral Code is unique and can be shared anywhere you like, including on social media, via email, or on your website.
What’s in it for me?
Recruiting one friend during the promotion gets you a Consolidated Outland HoverQuad, the perfect vehicle for adventurers looking to explore the most savage of terrain in comfort and style. State-of-the-art gravlev engines provide the smoothest ride in the game, and the on-board storage ensures you're properly equipped for any excursion. This reward also includes the Lovestruck paint.
What's in it for them?
The player you refer during the promotion will receive a Greycat Aril "Red Alert" armor set. Originally designed for miners, this armor set's integrated toolbelt and backpack, along with its ample protection and innovative design, assure it’s a good fit for nearly any job. The "Red Alert" edition mixes grey and a vibrant red for a bold and dynamic design.
Can I earn more than one Consolidated Outland HoverQuad?
No. Only one Consolidated Outland HoverQuad with Lovestruck paint can be earned per player.
What is the regular Referral Program?
The regular Referral Program empowers you to become a driving force behind the growth of the Star Citizen community. Plus, you’ll unlock cool in-game rewards, from exclusive hangar items to ships. The Referral Program Page details everything currently available.
When do I receive my referral bonus?
The veteran player will receive their bonus immediately when the new player they are referring pledges for a starter pack or ship (minimum $40) on the Pledge Store. The new player's bonus will be granted once the promotion ends on February 23. Bonuses may be distributed in waves, so if you don't see it show up right away, it should populate soon.
Are there any limitations to the referral bonus?
Yes. The Consolidated Outland HoverQuad given out as a referral bonus includes LTI (Lifetime Insurance) and is non-meltable and non-giftable.
Do the standard Referral Program and the limited Coramor 2956 Referral Bonus work together?
Yes. All referrals gained during the bonus period go towards your total in the standard Referral Program.
Where can I find more information on the Referral Program?
Click here to check out our regular referral program.
Click here to find the Referral Program FAQ.
