May 2026
Subscriber Promotions
DefenseCon 2956 is coming and it’s going to be bigger than ever. Time to put the spotlight on ships that work for people who work damn hard!
To help you get there in signature style, May’s Vehicles of the Month are from Drake. You’ll look the part stepping into the halls too, thanks to this month’s Flair.
R6 Pro Yaeger Aviator Glasses
- When the future's looking bright, reach for these aviator shades from R6 Pro. With a design that’s remained classic for centuries, you can salute the trailblazing aviators of the past as you chart new horizons.
- This flair item is temporarily delayed and will be available in an upcoming patch.
- Current Centurion-level Subscribers get this item as part of their subscriptions.
Behring P8-AR ‘Dominion Camo’ Rifle
- The direct descendant of the UEE Marines’ standard-issue rifle, Behring has crafted the semi-automatic P8-AR to provide civilians across the empire with a straightforward and dependable weapon to defend themselves.
- Current Imperator-level Subscribers get this item and the above Centurion-level item as part of their subscriptions.
Top Gunner’s Kit
- Hit hard and look good doing it. Classic aviators and a deadly assault rifle. Everything you need to handle whatever comes your way. Includes the R6 Pro Yaeger Aviator Glasses and Behring P8-AR ‘Dominion Camo’ Rifle.
- The R6 Pro Yaeger Aviator Glasses are temporarily delayed and will be available in an upcoming patch.
- This pack is available for all subscribers to pledge for in the Subscriber Store.
Earnable In-Game:
Our goal is to make most items earnable in-game. For this reason, subscriber flair may be added after a three-month exclusivity window.
Confront locator unify paradigm shift
Centurion Subscribers: Drake Dragonfly Black (with 12-month insurance)
Drake Dragonfly Black: Fast, fun, and only for the fearless, the Drake Dragonfly Black is a thrill ride disguised as a spaceship. Though designed for planetside excursions, it can handle short trips in open space - perfect for exploring derelicts or hunting for loot.
Imperator Subscribers: Drake Cutlass Black & Drake Dragonfly Black (with 24-month insurance)
Drake Dragonfly Black: Fast, fun, and only for the fearless, the Drake Dragonfly Black is a thrill ride disguised as a spaceship. Though designed for planetside excursions, it can handle short trips in open space - perfect for exploring derelicts or hunting for loot.
Drake Cutlass Black: The infamous Cutlass Black is prolific throughout the ‘verse, but whether it’s a welcome sight or not depends on your affiliations. This perfect embodiment of Drake is a rough-and-ready fighter more than capable of standing toe-to-toe with the heaviest hitters out there.
MERCHANDISE DISCOUNT
Two continuous discount levels are available to all Subscribers in the Merch
Store. Centurion Subscribers receive 10% off merchandise, while Imperator
Subscribers receive 15% off. Take advantage of this perk and peruse the
selection of available merchandise.
Merchandise Store
SUBSCRIBER STORE
All previous flair items going back to 2014 are available to pledge in the
Subscriber Store. You can fill in any gaps, pick up store-only items, or
grab extras to gift to non-Subscribers from the My Hangar section of your
RSI profile.
Shop Now
NOT A SUBSCRIBER?
If you would like to receive this flair as part of a subscription, you can subscribe before May 12, 2026 (20:00 UTC). Otherwise, you can pick up these and previous months’ flair (going back to 2014) in the dedicated Subscriber Store.
Subscribe Now
