June 2026
Subscriber Promotions
Join us throughout June as we celebrate everything extraterrestrial. Alien Week starts on the 17th, and we’re helping all Subscribers make the most of the festivities.
June’s Vehicles of the Month are from otherworldly shipbuilders Gatac Manufacture and Aopoa, while this month’s Flair features alien-inspired designs to decorate your hangars and weapon lockers with.
- Inspired by Human-made instruments, which were the Banu's first introduction to music, this ornately decorated Ochelo features four strings and a leather-skinned drum base.
- Current Centurion-level Subscribers get this item as part of their subscriptions.
Gemini C54 ‘Ochelo’ SMG
- The C54 is a sleek and precisely balanced SMG, capable of firing on full auto to provide maximum support and target saturation to ensure that any engagement ends quickly. The Ochelo edition takes inspiration from the Banu musical instrument of the same name.
- Current Imperator-level Subscribers get this item and the above Centurion-level item as part of their subscriptions.
Banu Ochelo Bundle
- Embrace Banu culture with the Ochelo bundle, featuring both the titular Banu instrument and a Gemini C54 SMG with a matching distressed gold finish.
- This pack is available for all subscribers to pledge for in the Subscriber-Exclusive Store.
Earnable In-Game:
Our goal is to make most items earnable in-game. For this reason, subscriber flair may be added after a three-month exclusivity window.
Confront locator unify paradigm shift
Centurion Subscribers: Gatac Syulen  (with 12-month insurance)
Gatac Syulen: Unlike anything made within the Empire, the Gatac Syulen is the result of thousands of years of Xi’an shipbuilding. The only concession this alien cargo vessel makes is a reworked cockpit to suit Human pilots.
Imperator Subscribers: Aopoa San’tok.yāi & Gatac Syulen (with 24-month insurance)
Aopoa San’tok.yāi: Although designed specifically for the Earth market, the Aopoa San’tok.yāi is defined by its high-end Xi’an technology. Hugely agile while packing heavy ordnance, it’s an unmistakably alien take on the ubiquitous Medium Fighter.
Gatac Syulen: Unlike anything made within the Empire, the Gatac Syulen is the result of thousands of years of Xi’an shipbuilding. The only concession this alien cargo vessel makes is a reworked cockpit to suit Human pilots.
MERCHANDISE DISCOUNT
Two continuous discount levels are available to all Subscribers in the Merch
Store. Centurion Subscribers receive 10% off merchandise, while Imperator
Subscribers receive 15% off. Take advantage of this perk and peruse the
selection of available merchandise.
Merchandise Store
SUBSCRIBER STORE
All previous flair items going back to 2014 are available to pledge in the
Subscriber Store. You can fill in any gaps, pick up store-only items, or
grab extras to gift to non-Subscribers from the My Hangar section of your
RSI profile.
Shop Now
NOT A SUBSCRIBER?
If you would like to receive this flair as part of a subscription, you can subscribe before June 9, 2026 (20:00 UTC). Otherwise, you can pick up these and previous months’ flair (going back to 2014) in the dedicated Subscriber Store.
Subscribe Now
