DefenseCon 2956 Referral Bonus
Blaze a trail to DefenseCon 2956 in classic Drake style with our latest Referral Bonus! When you refer a friend, you can score a Drake Dragonfly with Coalfire paint for free! It's the perfect ride for terrestrial excursions or scouting around your base, and because it fits in a variety of ships, it's ready for any adventure when you touch down. What's more, the player you refer will be dressed to heat up runways of their own with a DefenseCon Gear Pack that'll make their first steps in the 'verse even more memorable.
What is the referral bonus?
The referral bonus gives you free gear for getting new players into Star Citizen. This time, you will receive a Drake Dragonfly with Coalfire paint when you refer a friend. The player you refer will receive a DefenseCon Gear Pack, including matching hat, T-shirt, and cargo pants.
The bonus is granted when a new player uses your referral code and pledges for a starter pack or ship (minimum $40) on the Pledge Store.
The usual referral bonuses apply too, including 50,000 aUEC and a point in the regular Referral Program.
This bonus promotion runs until May 27, 2026, 20:00 UTC.
How do I refer a friend?
Your friends should add your personal referral code when creating their new RSI accounts. Once an account is created, a new player has 24-hours to add a referral code to their account to claim their rewards if they did not add it at account creation. More info on this process can be found here.
Where do I find my personal referral code?
You can find it on the Referral Program Page. Your Referral Code is unique and can be shared anywhere you like, including on social media, via email, or on your website.
What’s in it for me?
Recruiting one friend during the promotion gets you a Drake Dragonfly, a rugged snub for adventurers looking to live on the edge. Dual-mode conversion allows the Dragonfly to operate on the ground or in space, and a rear-facing second seat means you can even take a passenger! This reward also includes the Coalfire paint.
What's in it for them?
The player you refer during the promotion can walk into DefenseCon ready to represent after receiving a DefenseCon Gear Pack, including matching hat, T-shirt, and cargo pants. They can make a statement and rep the brand that's got the fans' back...on their actual back.
Can I earn more than one Drake Dragonfly?
No. Only one Drake Dragonfly with Coalfire paint can be earned per player.
What is the regular Referral Program?
The regular Referral Program empowers you to become a driving force behind the growth of the Star Citizen community. Plus, you’ll unlock cool in-game rewards, from exclusive hangar items to ships. The Referral Program Page details everything currently available.
When do I receive my referral bonus?
The veteran player will receive their bonus immediately when the new player they are referring pledges for a starter pack or ship (minimum $40) on the Pledge Store. The new player's bonus will be granted once the promotion ends on May 27. Bonuses may be distributed in waves, so if you don't see it show up right away, it should populate soon.
Are there any limitations to the referral bonus?
Yes. The Drake Dragonfly with Coalfire paint given out as a referral bonus includes LTI (Lifetime Insurance) and is non-meltable and non-giftable.
Do the standard Referral Program and the limited DefenseCon 2956 Referral Bonus work together?
Yes. All referrals gained during the bonus period go towards your total in the standard Referral Program.
Where can I find more information on the Referral Program?
Click here to check out our regular referral program.
Click here to find the Referral Program FAQ.
