July 2026
Subscriber Promotions
XenoThreat has returned to Stanton! The anti-UEE and xenophobic outlaw gang is wreaking havoc around the system and Foxwell Enforcement is counting on you to end its reign of terror.
To help you play your part, the latest Ships of the Month are from the deadly Anvil Hornet Mk II series. Plus, you won’t be lonely on your way to the action thanks to July’s Flair.
Emoto Dashbot
- Made to sit neatly on your dashboard, this companion Dashbot reacts during your travels with a large range of humorous facial expressions. Whether it's happy to see you or silently judging your piloting skills, the Emoto Dashbot is sure to make your next flight a little more fun. The Emoto Dashbot can be equipped on any vehicle cockpit with a Flair Item Dashboard port.
- Current Centurion-level Subscribers get this item as part of their subscriptions.
Klaus & Werner Gallant ‘Conviction Camo’ Rifle
- This energy-based assault rifle provides accurate and sustained fire at targets up to medium range, while its large power capacity allows operators to fire considerably more shots per battery. The Conviction Camo edition utilizes a selection of greys to help blend in with urban environments.
- Current Imperator-level Subscribers get this item and the above Centurion-level item as part of their subscriptions.
Companion Kit
- Roam the ‘verse with this pair of trusty travel companions, the adorable Emoto Dashbot and deadly Klaus & Werner Gallant ‘Conviction Camo’ rifle. The Emoto Dashbot can be equipped on any vehicle cockpit with a Flair Item Dashboard port.
- This kit is available for all subscribers to pledge for in the Subscriber-Exclusive Store.
Earnable In-Game:
Our goal is to make most items earnable in-game. For this reason, subscriber flair may be added after a three-month exclusivity window.
Confront locator unify paradigm shift
Centurion Subscribers: Anvil F7C Hornet Mk II (with 12-month insurance)
Anvil F7C Hornet Mk II: Rebuilt from the ground up to hit harder and last longer than the original, the Hornet Mk II improves on everything that made the first a space-combat icon.
Imperator Subscribers: Anvil F7C-M Super Hornet Mk II & Anvil F7C Hornet Mk II (with 24-month insurance)
Anvil F7C-M Super Hornet Mk II: A Hornet built for two. The Super Hornet Mk II boasts improved firepower over the standard ship thanks to a devastating manual turret, letting crews take on bigger and more numerous foes.
Anvil F7C Hornet Mk II: Rebuilt from the ground up to hit harder and last longer than the original, the Hornet Mk II improves on everything that made the first a space-combat icon.
MERCHANDISE DISCOUNT
Two continuous discount levels are available to all Subscribers in the Merch
Store. Centurion Subscribers receive 10% off merchandise, while Imperator
Subscribers receive 15% off. Take advantage of this perk and peruse the
selection of available merchandise.
Merchandise Store
SUBSCRIBER STORE
All previous flair items going back to 2014 are available to pledge in the
Subscriber Store. You can fill in any gaps, pick up store-only items, or
grab extras to gift to non-Subscribers from the My Hangar section of your
RSI profile.
Shop Now
NOT A SUBSCRIBER?
If you would like to receive this flair as part of a subscription, you can subscribe before July 14, 2026 (20:00 UTC). Otherwise, you can pick up these and previous months’ flair (going back to 2014) in the dedicated Subscriber Store.
Subscribe Now
