August 2026
Subscriber Promotions
Orison is once again under siege by the vicious Nine Tails gang and it’s up to you to stop them. To help you rip around the 'verse, August’s Ships of the Month are small-but-rapid hoverbikes. And no matter where the battle takes you, you can embrace the joy of Star Kitten with this month’s Flair.
Alejo Brothers Volatus ‘Stealth Kitten’ Balaclava
- The Volatus Balaclava is a staple of security and military operatives alike. The signature pink with blue whiskers imprinted on the ‘Stealth Kitten’ edition, combined with the limited-edition Shinobi Sally icon, make this facewear a statement piece for any look.
- Current Centurion-level Subscribers get this item as part of their subscriptions.
Behring P4-AR 'Star Kitten' Rifle
- Behring's classic P4-AR rifle features a collapsible stock and shortened barrel, making it an ideal choice for close-quarter firefights. The ‘Star Kitten’ edition features Sally's signature pink with blue accents and the famous cat herself printed along the side.
- Current Imperator-level Subscribers get this item and the above Centurion-level item as part of their subscriptions.
Star Kitten Kit
- Accessorize any outfit with Star Kitten style. This colorful bundle contains the Alejo Brothers Volatus ‘Stealth Kitten’ Balaclava and Behring P4-AR 'Star Kitten' Rifle, both in the classic pink and blue Star Kitten colors.
- This pack is available for all subscribers to pledge for in the Subscriber Store.
Earnable In-Game:
Our goal is to make most items earnable in-game. For this reason, subscriber flair may be added after a three-month exclusivity window.
Confront locator unify paradigm shift
Centurion Subscribers: Mirai Pulse (with 12-month insurance)
Mirai Pulse: The Pulse embodies the essence of speed. Small, instantly maneuverable, and insanely fast, it puts you close to the ground for high-octane thrills like no other.
Imperator Subscribers: Aopoa Nox & Mirai Pulse (with 24-month insurance)
Aopoa Nox: Built on a backbone of Xi’an grav-lev technology, this alien-inspired hover bike is a fast and frantic way to travel and explore planetside.
Mirai Pulse: The Pulse embodies the essence of speed. Small, instantly maneuverable, and insanely fast, it puts you close to the ground for high-octane thrills like no other.
PURR-FECT MATCH
Customize your fleet with a ‘Star Kitten’ ship paint.
Nox - Star Kitten Paint
2026-03-30 20:14:03
EG AOPOA
CATALOG AOPOA
SF CATALOG
St Patricks Day Mar 2026
For sale
Pulse - Star Kitten Paint
2026-03-30 20:15:11
St Patricks Day 2025
CATALOG MIRAI
EG MIRAI
SF CATALOG
St Patricks Day Mar 2026
For sale
MERCHANDISE DISCOUNT
Two continuous discount levels are available to all Subscribers in the Merch
Store. Centurion Subscribers receive 10% off merchandise, while Imperator
Subscribers receive 15% off. Take advantage of this perk and peruse the
selection of available merchandise.
Merchandise Store
SUBSCRIBER STORE
All previous flair items going back to 2014 are available to pledge in the
Subscriber Store. You can fill in any gaps, pick up store-only items, or
grab extras to gift to non-Subscribers from the My Hangar section of your
RSI profile.
Shop Now
NOT A SUBSCRIBER?
If you would like to receive this flair as part of a subscription, you can subscribe before August 11, 2026 (20:00 UTC). Otherwise, you can pick up these and previous months’ flair (going back to 2014) in the dedicated Subscriber Store.
Subscribe Now
