September 2026
Subscriber Promotions
Pirate Week is fast approaching, and every smart hauler knows loose cargo makes for easy plunder. Every subscriber can keep their cargo safe with the Vehicle of the Month aboard a long-range hauler built for the dangers of deep-space delivery. And when you arrive, you can show off your collectible coins to anyone and everyone with September’s Flair.
Coin Display Case
- Proudly display your coins with this classy case, featuring a red velvet interior with space for up to ten coins and a clear glass front so all can enjoy your collection.
- Current Centurion-level Subscribers get this item as part of their subscriptions.
Bosco Weapon Display Rack
- Showcase your favorite firearms with this sturdy display rack. Features display shelves for your favorite guns, as well as storage space for spare ammo and accessories.
- Current Imperator-level Subscribers get this item and the above Centurion-level item as part of their subscriptions.
Coin and Weapon Display Set
- Show off your collectable coins and favorite weapons with this Coin and Weapon Display Set, containing the challenge coin case and Bosco weapons rack.
- This pack is available for all subscribers to pledge for in the Subscriber-Exclusive Store.
Earnable In-Game:
Our goal is to make most items earnable in-game. For this reason, subscriber flair may be added after a three-month exclusivity window.
Confront locator unify paradigm shift
Centurion Subscribers: MISC Freelancer MAX (with 12-month insurance)
MISC Freelancer MAX: Wherever supplies are needed, the Freelancer MAX gets them there. Combining a huge cargo hold with heavy weapons, this long-range hauler is built to traverse the most dangerous corners of the galaxy.
Imperator Subscribers: MISC Hull B & Freelancer MAX (with 24-month insurance)
MISC Hull B: The Hull B is designed to maximize cargo capacity above all else. Thanks to MISC’s unique telescopic spindles and a well-appointed interior, it’s ideal for long, heavy hauls to Humanity’s farthest-reaching outposts.
MISC Freelancer MAX: Wherever supplies are needed, the Freelancer MAX gets them there. Combining a huge cargo hold with heavy weapons, this long-range hauler is built to traverse the most dangerous corners of the galaxy.
MERCHANDISE DISCOUNT
Two continuous discount levels are available to all Subscribers in the Merch
Store. Centurion Subscribers receive 10% off merchandise, while Imperator
Subscribers receive 15% off. Take advantage of this perk and peruse the
selection of available merchandise.
Merchandise Store
SUBSCRIBER STORE
All previous flair items going back to 2014 are available to pledge in the
Subscriber Store. You can fill in any gaps, pick up store-only items, or
grab extras to gift to non-Subscribers from the My Hangar section of your
RSI profile.
Shop Now
NOT A SUBSCRIBER?
If you would like to receive this flair as part of a subscription, you can subscribe before September 8, 2026 (20:00 UTC). Otherwise, you can pick up these and previous months’ flair (going back to 2014) in the dedicated Subscriber Store.
Subscribe Now
