Foundation Festival 2026 Referral Bonus
Show off your community spirit during Foundation Festival 2026 with an Argo ATLS, a power suit that makes loading or unloading cargo a breeze.
The player you refer will receive a "Ready for Anything" Career Kit designed to prepare them for a variety of activities in the 'verse.
What is the referral bonus?
The referral bonus gives you free gear for getting new players into Star Citizen. This time, you'll receive an Argo ATLS power suit when you refer a friend.
The player you refer will receive a "Ready for Anything" Career Kit.
The bonus is granted when a new player uses your referral code and pledges for a starter pack or ship (minimum $40) on the Pledge Store.
The usual referral bonuses apply too, including 50,000 aUEC and a point in the regular Referral Program.
This bonus promotion runs until August 12, 2026, 20:00 UTC.
How do I refer a friend?
Your friends should add your personal referral code when creating their new RSI accounts. Once an account is created, a new player has 24-hours to add a referral code to their account to claim their rewards if they did not add it at account creation. More info on this process can be found here.
Where do I find my personal referral code?
You can find it on the Referral Program Page. Your Referral Code is unique and can be shared anywhere you like, including on social media, via email, or on your website.
What’s in it for me?
Recruiting one friend during the promotion gets you an Argo ATLS, a power suit that embodies community spirit by effortlessly carrying the load for you without complaint. It's every cargo hauler's best friend.
What's in it for them?
The player you refer during the promotion will receive a "Ready for Anything" Career Kit. Designed for the budding adventurer and industrialist, this kit includes a full RSI Venture armor set and undersuit, RSI MacFlex backpack, and a Pyro RYT Multi-Tool with mining, tractor beam, and healing attachments. Rounding out the kit are a limited Greycat Cambio-Lite SRT attachment and canister, a Behring P4-AR rifle, and an all-purpose container, readying new players for just about anything the 'verse can throw at them.
Can I earn more than one Argo ATLS?
No. Only one Argo ATLS can be earned per player.
What is the regular Referral Program?
The regular Referral Program empowers you to become a driving force behind the growth of the Star Citizen community. Plus, you’ll unlock cool in-game rewards, from exclusive hangar items to ships. The Referral Program Page details everything currently available.
When do I receive my referral bonus?
The veteran player will receive their bonus immediately when the new player they are referring pledges for a starter pack or ship (minimum $40) on the Pledge Store. The new player's bonus will be granted once the promotion ends on August 12. Bonuses may be distributed in waves, so if you don't see it show up right away, it should populate soon.
Are there any limitations to the referral bonus?
Yes. The Argo ATLS given out as a referral bonus includes LTI (Lifetime Insurance) and is non-meltable and non-giftable.
Do the standard Referral Program and the limited Foundation Festival 2026 Referral Bonus work together?
Yes. All referrals gained during the bonus period go towards your total in the standard Referral Program.
Where can I find more information on the Referral Program?
Click here to check out our regular referral program.
Click here to find the Referral Program FAQ.
