October 2026
Subscriber Promotions
Whether you’re celebrating Halloween in 2026 or Day of the Vara in 2956, spooky season is well and truly upon us. Embrace the thrills and chills with October’s skeletal flair and send any soul that crosses you to the underworld from the pilot seat of Drake’s tiniest terror.
Behring CQ7 ‘Skullcap’ Rifle
- Designed for close-quarters engagements, Behring's CQ7 is a next-generation bullpup battle rifle designed to dominate the rigors of contemporary warfare. The ‘Skullcap’ edition features ominous skulls atop a black base coat.
- Current Centurion-level Subscribers get this item as part of their subscriptions.
Virgil ForceFlex ‘Skeleton’ Suit & Doomsday Helmet
- Embrace the Day of the Vara hijinks with the Skeleton Suit and Helmet. Combining the battle-proven Virgil ForceFlex undersuit and Doomsday Skullcap helmet, it’s as functional as it is fearsome.
- Current Imperator-level Subscribers get this item and the above Centurion-level item as part of their subscriptions.
Skeleton Kit
- Be ready for anything that Day of the Vara brings with this spooky armor and weapon kit, each with a skeleton theme.
- This pack is available for all subscribers to pledge for in the Subscriber Store.
Earnable In-Game:
Our goal is to make most items earnable in-game. For this reason, subscriber flair may be added after a three-month exclusivity window.
Confront locator unify paradigm shift
Centurion Subscribers: Drake Pitbull (with 12-month insurance)
Drake Pitbull: Despite being the smallest combat vessel in Drake’s deadly arsenal, the Pitbull is a force to be reckoned with. Easy to haul and deploy into combat, it should never be underestimated, especially in high numbers.
Imperator Subscribers: Drake Ironclad Assault & Pitbull (with 24-month insurance)
Drake Ironclad Assault: Built to carry cargo, troops, and vehicles, the Ironclad Assault combines the base ship’s huge hauling capability with heavier weapons to ensure your payload gets to its destination intact and ready for action.
Drake Pitbull: Despite being the smallest combat vessel in Drake’s deadly arsenal, the Pitbull is a force to be reckoned with. Easy to haul and deploy into combat, it should never be underestimated, especially in high numbers.
MERCHANDISE DISCOUNT
Two continuous discount levels are available to all Subscribers in the Merch
Store. Centurion Subscribers receive 10% off merchandise, while Imperator
Subscribers receive 15% off. Take advantage of this perk and peruse the
selection of available merchandise.
Merchandise Store
SUBSCRIBER STORE
All previous flair items going back to 2014 are available to pledge in the
Subscriber Store. You can fill in any gaps, pick up store-only items, or
grab extras to gift to non-Subscribers from the My Hangar section of your
RSI profile.
Shop Now
NOT A SUBSCRIBER?
If you would like to receive this flair as part of a subscription, you can subscribe before October 13, 2026 (20:00 UTC). Otherwise, you can pick up these and previous months’ flair (going back to 2014) in the dedicated Subscriber Store.
Subscribe Now
