Secure Yours Now
AEGIS SABRE RAVEN EX
ARGO ATLS IKTI AKUMA
BACK to RSI
Aegis Sabre Raven EX & Argo ATLS IKTI Akuma
We asked the Vehicle team a few questions about the two vehicles releasing with Alpha 4.10.1: Orison Relief Support. Here are the answers, straight from the devs themselves.
Aegis Sabre Raven EX
What is a "Quantum Dampener" and how is it different than a "Quantum Snare?"
These are two related technologies. A Quantum Dampener (QDMP) prevents ships within range from entering quantum travel. This is useful for keeping your target from escaping the fight. A Quantum Snare can force ships out of quantum travel. Certain ships that have both technologies refer to this as a Quantum Enforcement Device (QED.)
What other ships have a "Quantum Dampener?"
As of Alpha 4.10.1, only four other flyable ships have a Quantum Dampener. These are the RSI Mantis, the Drake Cutlass Blue, The RSI Scorpius Antares and the Mirai Guardian QI. Of these, only the Antares and QI are considered "fighters" and only the latter can be operated solo, putting the Aegis Sabre Raven EX in limited company.
How does the performance and capabilities of the Raven EX compare to that of the Sabre and Sabre Raven?
The Sabre Raven EX is intended to be a blend of balancing between the two. In weapons, it has the same capabilities as the Sabre with four S3 hardpoints (an improvement over the original Raven) while in speed and maneuverability it falls in between: greater speed than the Sabre and more armor than the Raven, but less stealth emission reduction than the Raven and less agility than the Sabre.
Does this share paints with the other Sabres?
Yes, as the sixth variant in the Aegis Sabre lineup, there are a host of paints already available for the new Sabre Raven EX, and the new paints offered in this release will be usable on every Sabre that's come before.
What does this mean for the original Sabre Raven?
The original Sabre Raven remains a rare and unique offering within the Star Citizen universe. We're offering the Sabre Raven EX with a different flight role and mission purpose that allows those of you who love the Sabre line but have always wanted the Raven visuals to finally fly the way you want.
Argo ATLS IKTI Akuma
How does the Argo ATLS IKTI Akuma differ from the Argo ATLS GEO IKTI we can earn in game?
Visually, the differences begin with a unique Nine Tails-inspired default livery. In Gameplay, the mounted weapons have been further customized by the Nine Tails to offer plasma repeaters with splash damage and a jump pack that trades a modest amount of jump height for increased distance and fuel capacity.
Are paints compatible between these variants?
As with the Raven EX above, all power suits in the ATLS line share the same paint capability. While the unique Nine-Tails livery is exclusive to the new Akuma, you can use all available ATLS paint past and future on this.
Why is this being offered by pledge and not in-game?
When we first added the Argo ATLS GEO IKTI in Alpha 4.2, we made it earnable exclusively in game. While it's important to us that still remains a uniquely available offering, we also understand many folks prefer the comfort of knowing during the Alpha period that they've secured their vehicles permanently. While it is still our intention to keep the original IKTI as it currently is, we felt that adding a variant into an existing armor/weapon/paint store bundle was an interesting opportunity to try something new.
