In Lumberyard, no it's not possible. However we have been working on a feature called Render-To-Texture which would make it possible, however whether it's practical is a totally different question.
I wrote something about the tech recently for the monthly update, so I'll just paste what I wrote here for you and elaborate a little on what that means.
Render To Texture is a feature that has many possibilities but is currently required to fulfill two goals, firstly (and currently the main priority) is to improve UI rendering and secondly it will allow live rendering of video communications for both SQ42 and PU.
In terms of UI it improves rendering performance by rendering as much of the UI ahead of a frame to allow batching and effective draw call management and also providing a texture which can be referenced by many different objects in the scene. Previously the UI was either rendered after everything else in the pipeline or 'just in time'. Neither of these were really acceptable for us, because having the rendering at the end of the pipeline would make the UI feel like it wasn't actually in the world, as it would have no sorting with other transparencies (e.g. cockpit glass) and would not be affected by any of the post processing. The 'just in time' method, although technically acceptable, would require a full pipeline state change mid-frame to render the UI just before it was required, which isn't really performant for every bit of UI in a scene, which in our game could be quite a lot. Another benefit to us having our UI pre-rendered to a texture means we can apply effects to it before and whilst it's used, providing us more visual manipulation opportunities. Also having the UI as a texture allows us to mip-map the texture therefore reducing artefacts caused by low sampling quality.
And finally the video comms. Most games will pre-render all cutscenes or video communications and store them on the hard-drive, but as we want so many for SQ42 and the ability to have many more in the PU, this isn't really feasible. The time spent to render these out is horrendous and therefore costly, as well as the hard-drive space high quality videos require. This new system renders the video communications in real-time  to a texture which can then be used on a screen during the main render of the scene, so the quality is near pixel perfect and the hard-drive space is nothing.
By now you'll be thinking 'Great, so in-game monitors then, right?', well not really (hence the initial yes, but no), as this tech is ultimately ANOTHER rendering pipeline pass to render a screen in game before we come to do the actual main rendering pass, that's expensive. Another issue is that if you're inside a ship there's a lot of culling happening to not render things that can't be seen, now if we add in a screen which can see the outside, you technically now have 2 camera frustums of visibility, how do we know how expensive that outside scene COULD be, so when the artists creating the insides of the ship around this screen know how much budget they're going to lose because this screen is going to be such a huge possible demand on GPU resources. So our Render-To-Texture functionality will have a stripped down lightweight version of the pipeline with reduced/limited post-processing when used for Video Comms, with the aim of making them look good, but also be performant.
