This has always been a difficult balance, how to give the vehicle enough intelligence and ability to traverse rough terrain without making it just a mindless experience.  The system definitely has the potential to be mindless, with a hover vehicle having the ability to elevate up over really any obstacle.  Early iterations, I could hover right up a steep cliff onto a mountain.  But at this point, the designers have a number of parameters that can determine how well a hover vehicle can tackle rough terrain and obstacles.  The main two are a maximum elevation rate and the other is a maximum elevation acceleration.  Especially when you're hovering up a steep slope, the elevation rate can be a limiting factor that determines what grade of slope you can tackle.  Of course HUD could tell you this, but for now it's just something you learn to recognize.  And also, when you do approach a slope that you believe is too steep, you can manually adjust your goal elevation to allow the vehicle to climb better.  But it's still not going to be an infinite slope.  There will be limits, depending on the vehicle.
The same is true of obstacles.  As you approach an obstacle, you will have a sense, based on your experience with the vehicle, of whether or not it's going to be able to clear it under normal operation.  If it seems too high, you'll either need to maneuver around it or strafe or pitch up to elevate over it.
I haven't implemented it yet, but I'd like to have a maximum gravlev range, which would also put a limit on how high you could elevate.  Not only would this limit the height of obstacles you could elevate over, but it would also limit how far you could fall without crashing into the ground, as a function of both the maximum lift force and maximum gravlev range.  Currently you can fall from any distance because gravlev will kick in and give you sufficient upward force to catch you just before you hit the ground.
"While exploring, why would I want to skim the surface in HOV mode if I could be safer flying high over obstacles in SCM mode? Does SCM consume more fuel? "
Fuel isn't currently accurately modeled, so it's not based on actual thruster activity.  With an accurate fuel model, it would definitely make sense that fuel conservation would be a strong reason to use a hover vehicle.  Aside from that, as someone mentioned above, stealth, not only limiting EM/IR, but also just staying under radar in general.  You could do that with a ship, flying close to the ground, but it's a lot more work to stay in those canyons and such (though that's a lot of fun as well).  But I think ultimately, it's just a given that we want hover vehicles to have utility, and design will find a way to achieve that goal.
