This is just really foreign to me.  Obviously, since I went a very different way.  I went with what was intuitive to me, but I've had a lot of feedback that supports those decisions.  But to me, a hover vehicle is not an aircraft.  You don't expect to "fly" it upward or downward.  You do expect to maintain a given elevation, and there is an intuitive correlation between pitching up to raise elevation and down to lower elevation, as you would in normal atmospheric flight.  What you seem to be suggesting is that the hover vehicle will always move forward on a trajectory along its nose, so if you pull the nose up, you'll begin to slope upward along the line of your nose, or if you push the nose down,  you'll begin to slope downward along that same line, irrespective of the terrain you're hovering over.  To me, this does not seem natural for a hover vehicle at all.  The hover vehicle attempts to remain aligned with the surface under it, and should attempt to maintain a given elevation over that surface.  As the surface rises, the vehicle rises, and as it falls, the vehicle falls.  Of course strafe is an intuitive way to control that elevation over the surface, but depending who you talk to, pitch is just as intuitive.  And since we have a feature that allows you to strafe up to break out of hover mode, it makes sense to have an alternative method of controlling elevation that will not break out of hover.  Otherwise, trust me, you'll accidentally exit hover mode far too often.
I definitely feel that if the control system was designed such that pitch controlled the actual pitch attitude of the hover vehicle, causing it to either ascend or descend along a slope relative to the surface you're hovering over, it would feel far too much like normal flight.  The goal here is for hover control to feel very different from normal flight.
As for roll, I took the approach you would take with a motorcycle.  The point of "roll" on a motorcycle is to keep your center of mass low in a turn to avoid flipping the bike.  This is the same with the hover vehicle.  As you're turning, the vehicle will roll in order to put the "weight" of the turn into the seat rather than across the seat.  But as Gravlev has been defined, there is no lateral friction.  And as I have defined the rules of the simulation, Gravlev force is only generated opposite the vector of gravity.  So banking the bike doesn't convert Gravlev into lateral force.  It's the force of your thrusters that hold you in a turn.
I suppose it might just be my personal bias, but I interpret and understand hover force as being a linear force either normal to a surface or, in our case, along the line of gravity, but with zero friction tangential to the surface you're hovering over.  That's one of the benefits of a hover vehicle such as a maglev train.  It hovers and glides.
