Hi Dowplhin!
I can't speak for the other devs, but I can give a little insight into the frequency of dev feedback, at least from myself.  Lately I've been trying to make an effort to scan the dev questions every now and then to see if there's something I can answer. I'm a gameplay programmer who has worked on a lot of different features so often questions will touch on something I've directly been involved in. That said, just because I've worked on something and even if there's a working version does not mean that the current way the feature is planned to work is how it will end up when released.  Often times we iterate a lot and zero in on the behavior as we go a long. For things that are still evolving I may know the answer for how it works now, or could work, but I'm not confident enough to post the answer. That said, there are times that I will post about work that is planned as the design questions have largely been settled and I feel more confident in the answer. This is complicated by the fact that devs have specific roles. As a programmer, I could be working on implementing a specific design that a particular question is referencing, but the question might touch on some nuance of the design that would require the feature's designer to answer. On the flip side, I'm sure there are many situations where a question is asked where a designer might know how they would want it to work, but they wouldn't want to given an answer as they don't know the technical issues involved in the implementation, or the technical details haven't been worked out and it's still an open question internally. Because of all of this a dev might not want to answer either because they aren't sure, or they aren't sure if the current answer will change soon, and sometimes they aren't even sure if the answer they do know has already changed and they have slightly outdated information (we're a big team so this can happen!)
Finally, some devs are more comfortable having public interaction than others, so some features and topics will just naturally see less traffic. I do check out the general forums as well and if something looks like I can chime in I will, so posting it there doesn't guarantee it won't get dev feedback, but the Ask A Dev is a more visible way to call something out.
