So I think that's two questions.
One, "why do thruster values have to be multiples of what is actually needed to work"
So, this is a consequence of supporting thrusters that act on multiple axes.  A thruster can gimbal to contribute thrust to up to 3 different directions simultaneously, and really in theory could gimbal to fire in a full spherical shell.  So let's say that a thruster can fire on three different axes.  It can fire at X Newtons on the x axis, Y on the y axis and Z on the z axis.  The total capacity of the thruster has to be T = root(X^2+Y^2+Z^2) so that it has sufficient thrust to provide the full amount it is allowed on each of 3 different axes at once.  If it's only firing on the X axis, it will only have X thrust.  Not the full T.  Now suppose X, Y and Z are the same amount.  Then T = root(3)*X, and this means that the per-axis scale for this thruster would be 1/root(3) = 0.578.
The next question, " Why do they sometimes output even greater values than the main engines, even though they are supposed to draw FROM the engines?"
So it sounds like you've heard about the concept of a thrust shunting system.  First, I would point out that the thrust shunting system was devised as a reasonable explanation to fit the designers needs, not vice versa.  We didn't set out to make a thrust shunting system and then tell the designers "ok, this is what you can do with it".  This is always driven by designer's needs first, and then I do my best to achieve those needs in a way that's realistic and logically consistent within a simulation.  In this case, we have all thrust being ultimately generated by the main engine itself, so your engine is always the most powerful unit in the system.  All thrusters, including the output of the main engine itself, are just nozzles, outputs attached to conduits that eject whatever thrust medium our engines are generating.  This is actually very similar to how a Harrier system works.  So in theory, there is no hard limit on the amount of thrust that a small nozzle can generate.  In practice, as I said in the document, there should be.  It seems intuitive that larger nozzles should support larger thrust capacities, and smaller nozzles smaller capacities.  But this is not enforced by the simulation.  It is up to the discretion of the designers.  And what it ultimately comes down to is, what performance levels do the designers want for a given ship on a given axis?  When the designer says "this ship can stop sliding in 1.5 s after a 90 degree yaw", and at the same time "this ship can accelerate from 0 to max SCM in 1.5 s on its forward axis", they have indicated that the sum of all thrust available on the x axis is the same as the sum of all thrust available on the y axis, irrespective of the size or number of thrusters involved.  So there lies the problem.  It's not that the ship is designed such that you get a certain performance on these axes.  It's that designers have explicitly asked for this performance on these axes.  My system is designed to give the designers as much flexibility as I can, so that they can achieve whatever flight performance they're after, but it is provided via a realistic rigid body thruster simulation.
BTW, I have been asked to provide a way to independently tune turn thrust and strafe thrust, so it's possible to have a ship that can arrest a 90 degree yawing turn in 1.5 s, but then at the same time, maybe it takes 5 seconds to strafe to max velocity on x.  That's the key to allowing devs to give ships a bit more personality, where some ships are designed for strafe and others are designed for normal flight, and then there are some that are a hybrid.  IFCS 3.0 opens the door to that flexibility.
