The issue here is that ships are being controlled by thrusters even though they're in atmosphere.  Ships aren't flying by control surfaces, they're flying by the same thrust that they fly with in vacuum, using 6DOF thrust control.  And as you know, our ships have really high accelerations.  If a ship has +z acceleration of 6 G, which is really fairly low for our ships, then that means the ship can counter gravity with 1 G, leaving another 5 G for maneuvers.  In other words, if it feels like gravity is meaningless, it basically is relative to the maneuverability that our ships support.
We have a proposed solution for this, but it has not yet been implemented into the game.  The idea is that our maneuvering thrusters are capable of generating a high impulse of thrust in order to generate a very fast change in velocity over the range of SCM speed, but these thrusters are unable to continue to generate a sustained thrust at the level needed to compensate for gravity.  A ship would need specialized thrusters that can generate a long duration, stable thrust level to keep the ship up in gravity, and these thrusters could have a much lower capacity.  Maybe only 1.5 G rather than the 6 G you're getting out of the impulse thrusters.  This is basically what VTOL thrusters are doing today, but not all ships have devoted VTOL thrusters, and also, any ship with VTOL thrusters can also use maneuvering thrusters if VTOL is insufficient.  The new system would be much more restrictive, using VTOL thrusters ONLY for gravity compensation, and maneuvering thrusters only for short duration changes in velocity.
Another factor that contributes to the fake feel of flight in atmosphere is the perfect stability of gravity compensation.  In reality, this would be a much less precise system, a feedback system that is always working with imperfect data about the state of the ship, and the ship would never just stick perfectly in place in a hover.  But my goal for now is to achieve perfect stability, with the intention of adding controlled instability in the future.  So I consider this aspect of gravity compensation to be polish.
