All excellent questions, Tazius.
"how resource intensive is the IFCS simulation? Is it light weight or is it a large contributor in deciding the number of ships that will spawn in an instance?'
The majority (probably 99%) of processing for the IFCS simulation is within what I've called in this document the PCS, or propulsion control system. In the engine I call it the thrust manager. And what it does is determine the actual per-thruster activity needed to achieve a requested force and torque pair every step of the simulation. So if you ask to yaw at 90 deg/s, IFCS can calculate the amount of acceleration needed to achieve this yaw rate over time, taking into account limits on acceleration and even jerk, very quickly and efficiently. But once it has the goal torque, it needs to pass that into the PCS to set individual thruster levels to realistically motivate the desired torque. And our ships generally have many different ways that it could generate the requested torque. The PCS maintains a list of thruster sets which can generate the desired torque, and when allocating thrust to a requested torque, it steps through this list until that torque level has been met or until no torque remains. The larger a ship is, the more thrusters it has, the more different ways it can generate a given torquing action, the less efficient this will be. This is primarily why IFCS was moved to batch update in the first place during 3.0 optimizatons. So that this CPU-intensive operation could be done on a lazy batch thread. But I've already begun optimizing so that this thrust allocation process is no longer running every frame, or every physics step. The full search should only need to run once whenever the ship's state changes, either a change in mass or mass distribution, or a change in thrust level, etc. When this happens, IFCS needs to reset the thrust manager to determine the current maximum accelerations available on each control axis. And then IFCS uses these maximum accelerations to set the limits on what it will allow. This is how the system currently works, as of 3.1. It no longer needs to calculate the amount of thrust available every update, it only needs to determine which thrusters to activate.  And it can do this once per batch update, while the physics is actually updating once every physics step, giving us a good balance between efficiency and stability. So while this search is the bulk of IFCS processing, it currently happens in a lazy batch update, and can be load balanced. The worst that you'd see is that thrusters are not updating as fluidly as you would prefer, but in this case, many things about the simulation will probably be lagged and clunky.
As a next step, I will optimize how IFCS allocates thrust to achieve a given force and torque. This shouldn't require a full search of the available force and torque generators. All it should require is for the requested accelerations to be converted to force and torque and then allocated uniformly over all thrusters designated as contributing to that particular force or torque component. Once I've done this, we will not only have a far more efficient thrust management system, but also a more cosmetically appealing one, since thrust will be more evenly distributed over all thrusters that can contribute to a control action rather than on a first-come-first-served basis like we do today. You may have noticed how, for example on the Caterpillar, when thrusting upwards in gravity, only a small number of thrusters will fire of all available upward vectored thrusters.  This is because the upward maneuvering thrust (at least before it was recently retuned) is so high that gravity can be compensated for with a small set of thrusters, and these thrusters are used to their full capacity before other thrusters are activated.  The resulting flight behavior is realistic, but not visually appealing.  The new approach will be both realistic and more visually appealing.
"with designers tuning velocities, axis goal times, then running the auto-calibration for thrusters, are these systems nullifying the purpose of having a Newtonian flight model?"
If we had a static system where the performance of a pristine ship was the only way that ship would perform, or even if we used a gamified system where system damage would cause a degradation of performance over various control actions as the ship takes damage, then you're right, there would be no need to provide a complex Newtonian flight model.  But we can do better than that.  So when the designers designate the maximum velocities and goal times, and the auto-tuner calibrates the maximum capacities of thrusters to achieve this performance, this locks in the initial state of the ship, but that performance is only guaranteed when the ship is in pristine condition, has full power and is carrying the exact loadout it was tuned for.  Once things start to change, the performance of the ship will evolve based on the realistic simulation in ways that no gamified system could achieve.  Do I think we're doing as good a job of this as we could in the game?  No.  I do feel that a lot of the potential of this system is lost in translation at the moment.  But the potential is there.  If we're not going to use it, I'd agree with you, why not just simplify the system.
I hope that answers the remainder of your questions as well.  The main point being, tuning is all about providing a very tightly defined behavior for a pristine ship.  The simulation is about providing realistic flight behaviors for infinitely many states once the ship has left the showroom floor.
