"Our main concern was the thrust to mass values found in the data and to explain that the numbers were over-the-top and then reigned in by "time to max speed". "
The section on ship tuning attempts to explain how this works from the designer's perspective.  For them, it all starts with "time to max speed", because that's all I wanted them to be concerned with.  Back in the days of Calix tuning the ships, he was doing it by trial and error, actually assigning thrust capacities for each thruster.  That he got the results he got was just amazing.  So for IFCS 2.0, I introduced a simplified tuning method that allows the tuners to focus more on general behaviors like maximum velocity, time to reach max velocity (acceleration), and also how smooth the transition should be (jerk).  Then using the simulation, I calculate what the thrust capacities would need to be for each thruster in order to accomplish these goals for a given reference ship (pristine hull and default loadout).  Once these capacities are calculated, they're committed to the thrusters, and then in-game, any damage to thrusters, loss of power, change in mass distribution, etc., will alter the ship's performance in a realistic way through the simulation.
In some cases, when thrusters can fire on more than one axis, the capacity is higher on the thruster than it would be if it only fired on one axis.  This allows the thruster to achieve its full thrust on all axes simultaneously so the ship can achieve all of its performance goals in complex maneuvers.  If you apply this to a system that does not scale the thrust per-axis, you could end up with all of the thruster's capacity being applied on each individual axis, and you're getting higher performance than IFCS would otherwise allow.  So it is somewhat misleading to look directly at those thrust capacities.  And there is more complexity to consider beyond that, having to do with torque balance, so that thrusters are not always able to fully utilize their capacity.
When it comes to performance, the "time to max velocity" is the dominant stat, and a ship that's in pristine condition should achieve that performance on each axis using the rigid body simulation, regardless of how much capacity is available on individual thrusters.
