Sure, I'll bite.
Greifing is an aspect that is in very muddied water when it boils down to it.
In a game where contrasts such as piracy and law enforcement are present, there is always going to be a conflict of interest. Do we punish a pirate for blowing up your 5 million UEC laden cargo hold? - Do we ban the bounty hunter because he caught you and ruined a gig that could of been a good pay off? - The short answer is No.
Griefing is a label that is applied broadly in many gaming communities in my experience. This is often used as someone causing inconvenience or hinderance to someones elses goal, which isn't something moderation are going to be able to help with, since this is intended gameplay design. Especially if said hinderence is achieved using the game systems and mechanics that have been designed to support that gameplay.
If you fly out into lawless space for example, and have your ship rammed into or blown up, that is on you and is an  inherent risk of flying through lawless or low security space.
However, there is a  boundary as to what is intended gameplay, (being piracy and law enforcement) vs someone just being an ass and making life miserable for someone else extending beyond serving an interest of a personal ingame payoff.
So for example, ramming an Aurora into a landing pad over and over is going to be difficult with the way our systems are going to be designed, even if said ship has LTI, you still have to pay deductibles/expedite fees which is a diminishing return in the short term - making this kind of behavior unable/difficult to be sustained. Ramming also will gain you a crimestat in more secure systems, and chances are authorities in the form of defense turrets or patrols are just going to come down on the rammer as their crimstat increases.
Even starting a new account, getting a ship, and operating it costs in game currency. While I am sure people will work out ways to grief, it is something that moderation will be reviewing on a case by case basis with all circumstances considered before action is decided.
It's early days and we will have to observe how things pan out and what behaviors rise around the systems we install.
Kraiklyn
Lead Moderator | RSI Community Support
Cloud Imperium Games.
