The way our thrusters work, whenever IFCS determines that a thruster must fire in order to provide the requested force or torque on the ship, it provides both a thrust level and a thrust vector for the thruster.  It passes this thrust level and direction into each thruster.  The thruster begins to ramp up its visual fx and sound fx based on the requested thrust level.  If it's a gimbaled thruster, it begins to animate to rotate into the requested thrust vector.  The thruster in the simulation is able to immediately generate the thrust level on the thrust vector, even if the thruster itself has not ramped up to this level visually or rotated into the proper vector.  If the thruster was not allowed to generate the requested thrust immediately, it would cause significant instability in the system.  For us to do better than this would require foresight in the design of thruster layouts.
Another consideration here is that thrust is currently allocated to thrusters on a first-come-first-served basis.  If there are 10 thrusters that can contribute to upward thrust, for example, and if the thrust that IFCS is requesting can be provided by the first 4 thrusters, only those first 4 thrusters will fire at their maximum capacity, as opposed to all 10 thrusters firing at a lesser capacity.  I have a goal to change this behaviors so we get a more balanced allocation of thrust over all thrusters that can participate in any control action.
But I think the primary reason thrusters rarely look like they're doing as much as physics would suggest they're doing is because the actual visual and sound output for a thruster is always based on the ration between the current thrust level and the maximum allowed thrust level.  Consider a gimbaled thruster that can thrust on three axes.  If it can generate the same amount of thrust on each of these axes, and it is currently thrusting on one axis, even if it's at maximum thrust on that axis, it's only hitting about 1/2 of its maximum capacity, and will therefore only generate 1/2 the maximum vfx or sfx, depending on how the fx teams have mapped the output of the thruster.  Even worse, if a thruster has significantly more thrust capacity on one axis than the others, then the amount of thrust it can generate at maximum thrust on a lesser axis will be much smaller.  The result is a much less impressive thrust behavior.  I am aware of this issue and am considering an alternative that will scale thrust vfx and sfx based on the per-axis thrust ratios rather than the per-thruster ratio.  That way, as long as a thruster is reaching maximum on one of its supported axes, it will generate the maximum amount of thrust vfx and sfx.  If it then goes beyond this amount, it will simply saturate and continue to fire at the maximum level.
