This is a very good question.  And this is something I have been aware of for awhile and meaning to address.  Sorry that I haven't done so yet.  But yes, that reticle is an indicator of your actual control attitude, and all control that you provide is applied directly to it in an ideal way.  The other smaller reticle is your nose reticle, and it is an indicator of your true attitude.  When everything is working properly, these two reticles should be locked.  When there is any error between what you've asked the ship to do (and the control reticle does this) and what the ship actually does (as indicated by the nose reticle), IFCS uses a feedback system to correct out that error.  After a collision, you'll see IFCS arrest your rotational velocity and bring the ship back into proper alignment.  But during this  time, when the two reticles are not aligned, yes, your input is being applied to the ideal state, not the true state.  If the control reticle is behind the ship for a moment, then yes, your control would be inverted.  It isn't a good situation.
This actually works pretty well and serves a purpose for small error.  It allows you to focus on what you want the ship to do without concern for small error.  Whenever there's turbulence, for example, this is very useful.  Because if you're telling the ship to strafe left, but the wing is dipped slightly because of turbulence, what translates to left will be different than if the wing wasn't tipped.  Because "left" is given in ship local space, in the frame of the ship itself.  If the ship is bobbing around, the motion of the ship is feeding into what your input is interpreted as, and it changes the results.  But if instead input is interpreted within the control frame rather than the true ship frame, then this feedback is removed.  The input controls the input frame and the input is given relative to the input frame.  This is a stable system.  If input controls the ship frame and it's given relative to the ship frame, and the ship frame isn't guaranteed to be exactly where it has been told to be, that's an unstable system.  So hopefully that makes sense.
So assuming you accept that it works well for small errors in attitude, and since we've used this system since about 0.8, I hope this is accepted.  But assuming it is, the question is, how should we deal with larger deviations, and also, how do we define large?  There are a few options.  One would be to snap the ideal frame to match the true trame once it reaches a certain level of error.  This would mean, for example, that if a missile exploded and sent you spinning, you won't return to your original attitude.  The control attitude would tend to follow the true attitude, keeping the error reasonably small during that time.  You might end up flying in the opposite direction than you were, whereas if you just allowed IFCS to arrest your spin and restore your attitude, you'd continue on your original path.  But of course that requires you to be hands off until IFCS gets back into proper alignment, which is something most players would prefer to not do.
The other option is to just take control away from the player during a major misalignment like this.  I think everyone can agree this is a bad idea.
And the last option is to do a hybrid of these two, where IFCS is going to conserve the control alignment even when there is a large error, and work to re-align to that control frame, as long as you are hands-off and letting it do its thing.  But the moment you apply input, IFCS would snap to the true attitude and make sure that your input is being applied as nearly as possible to the true attitude of the ship as possible, within that small range of acceptable error.
I personally prefer this last approach and would like to give that a try.
