First, we should consider what was originally done when tuning a ship.  Back when Calix was tuning, he was expected to fly a ship, get a sense for how it performed relative to his expectations, then go in and manually tweak thrust levels on thrusters in an attempt to adjust performance, test the results of those changes, rinse and repeat MANY TIMES.  And to make matters more difficult, the various goals of tuning were often entangled so that changing one performance would impact another.  Just consider the simple case of the Hornet.  It uses one set of 4 top thrusters to provide all control on down, left and right and retro, as well as contribute to all rotational actions.  So with this simple approach, it's impossible to add retro without adding side thrust, or increasing available rotational acceleration.  It was necessary to simplify this tuning method so that the desigers could focus on what they wanted a ship to do rather than how to achieve it, especially when the actual performance of a ship emerges from a complex simulation rather than a set of equations that can be balanced.  This was what motivated the system we have today.
But getting back to your question, if we had taken the approach you suggest, we'd essentially be asking the same from designers that we originally asked, that they figure out the right balance of mass and engine/thruster capacity to achieve whatever parametric performance they're after.  Because just because the system forces a particular way of tuning doesn't change the bottom line of how they're going to define a ship's performance, which has always been "how fast can it accelerate on each axis of control".  Not "how fast should it accelerate based on its mass and a reasonable capacity of its thrusters".  What you're proposing is an emergent tuning system, not a goal-based tuning system.
I think another way to look at this is, if the designers are going to tune ships based on reasonable mass and thrust levels, to arrive at reasonable accelerations based on reasonable physical constraints on ships, why can't they recognize that the ships are not achieving these reasonable performance goals now?  They know the mass of a ship.  All tuning is done relative to a given reference ship, with a pristine hull mass and moment of inertia, and a default loadout.  And they know the size and count of thrusters that are available.  Just in general, they know that a ship is in a certain category that really determines how it should perform, either as a racing ship or light fighter, or as a medium fighter or bomber, or getting up into multi-crew ships and then capital ships.  Each of these ship categories should suggest reasonable accelerations.  But in reality, any acceleration can be achieved with any ship.  An Idris can perform exactly like a Hornet, as long as its thrusters have sufficient capacity.  But why do we want an Idris to perform like a Hornet?  You can't hide these decisions from the designers.  That is a decision that needs to be made at a high level, and it needs to be balanced over all ships of all categories.  There needs to be top down decisions about what performance all ships should have.  And then why not just plug in those performance goals directly rather than figure out how to achieve them by specifying the capacities of thrusters?  Because mass isn't a control variable here.  Mass is based on hull and loadout.  And the number and placement of thrusters, unfortunately that's not a control variable here.  The only control variable is thruster capacity.  So the choice really boils down to, do we have designers trying to achieve a goal performance by guessing at thrust capacities, or do we have them directly specifying the goal performance and let IFCS calculate what those capacities will be?  Either way, it is up to the designers to make right decisions about how a ship will perform.  And I'm not saying that they're making wrong decisions.  Some would say they are, some would say they're not.  We as a community are very divided on this.  All I'm saying is, this is the tool I've provided them, and this is the flexibility they have.  In my experience, if I gave them less flexibility, they'd find ways to achieve the same goals, they'd just have to work harder at it.
Now, all that said, if the design team comes to me tomorrow and says "we'd rather tune this way", I'd make that change in a heartbeat.  There's nothing that restricts us to taking this approach.
