So, what we currently do with large rotating mains is, we allow them to rotate between fixed states.  So on the Cutlass, for example, it can rotate into VTOL mode to give you some lift, or back into rear thrust to give you forward acceleration.  But it isn't dynamically rotating in order to supply these different axes of control.  The reason for this is because by the time a large gimbaled thruster like that rotates into the vector it needs to be in to contribute to thrust on an axis, most likely other thrusters have already provided the needed thrust, and as soon as the large main gets rotated into position, it's already rotating back into its default orientation.  The result is the very recognizable spastic, flopping mains that we've seen in the past.
It would be possible to allow these mains to function dynamically on more axes.  To do that, I'd have to allow those mains to be designated as using strict thrust vectors, so that they cannot begin to generate thrust on a vector until fully rotated into that vector.  And I actually have a setting like this.  I don't think we currently use it for any thrusters, however.  But using the Cutlass as an example, if this was used, in theory, the acceleration time on an axis where the large mains could be brought to bear would include the large thrust generated by those mains, so that the contribution from other thrusters would be very little.  When you first start to move in a direction that requires the mains to rotate into place, you'd get a very small amount of acceleration from fixed thrusters to get you moving in that direction, then after maybe a second or two, the main would complete its rotation into the desired thrust vector and begin to fire.  This would kick the ship into a much higher acceleration and achieve the delta v within a short time after.  But the total time to achieve this delta v would be longer than the requested acceleration time of the tuning.  It would be roughly the tuned time plus the mains rotational time, assuming that the thrust from other thrusters would be small relative to the mains thrust.  So I think this could be interesting, and we could try it without any changes to the physics simulation.
In general, I would expect this kind of control to be very awkward.  But it would certainly give these ships more character, and allow them to perform more the way one would expect given the way those thrusters are designed.
