Hey Moose :slightly_smiling_face:
I would love to have a way to expose those ESP tuning params to the community, to at least a focus group, and let them help us explore for the optimal tuning.  Right now it's taking too long to do a testing iteration.  It doesn't help that ESP isn't working properly with the tunings that have worked in the past, and the truth is that we've always managed to find a good tuning in the past without opening it up to community involvement like this.  But obviously I'm struggling with it right now.  I do have more changes I intend to try, but I feel like I need more time to iterate on those changes and get a wide range of feedback from both PvP and PvE players, from joystick and M/KB players, etc., than I'm getting.  At the moment, I've favored a more powerful ESP because combat has just been across-the-board unplayable.  But this isn't the end-point for me on how ESP should work.  I will continue to work from the feedback I'm getting to get it back into a sweet spot.  And if possible, I am perfectly willing to expose the tuning params and see what our testers come up with.
One issue we have, though, is that what works well for some doesn't work well for others.  I'm getting the range of feedback from "this is amazing" to "are you kidding me!?!?" with the current 3.2 ESP behaviors.  So it's hard to filter that and arrive at the best overall solution.  But we do need one.  I don't think we can allow players to tune ESP for their own personal taste.  Our goal has always been for ESP to be a consistent system for everyone using it.  If someone somehow arrives at a perfect tuning that's the best it can possibly be, I'd want that to be available for everyone to use, not just the person smart enough to find it.
Anyway, it's a work in progress.  I hope most agree that in the past ESP has done its job well, and I believe that it can again once it gets back on track.  Because I fear that the alternative will be to just have a more aggressive auto-aim system that simply assists your aim onto the target position, which when ESP works properly is not what it does.  For our game, forcing the player onto the target position to guarantee a hit is not good enough.  Because we need to be able to refine our aim over a large target area, to decide whether to target a thruster or the wing or the pilot's head.  Forcing the aim onto the center of mass of the ship, which is the general target point of any ship, is taking far too much control away from the pilot, and that's not what I want.
