" The main problem I have with the state of flight is that ships have very sharp motions and early delta-v, especially with boost and SCM (the sprint key problem). This is jarring in particular from/to a standstill when taking off or landing. This is dominantly the realm of fighters that should operate under the control model of transient motion as you mention. This curve has a slight ease-in of acceleration, do you think this should solve the problem? Do you think other problems are compounding it, such as networking? Do you think that this problem exists solely because of high values of thrust assigned to thrusters? Do you believe that there is a value low enough of thrust such that thrusters will no longer be able to move ships with instant effect with the way the IFCS currently works? In short, what ways do you see to solve this problem while retaining the fidelity and nature of the simulation I currently know and love? "
I do think this is ultimately a function of acceleration levels, which determines thrust levels.  When I modified the acceleration model to return to what was used in 1.x, this shifted the acceleration curve so that it is front-loaded, so for the same average acceleration over a given delta v, when accelerating, you actually cover more distance now than you did before, or when stopping, you stop in a shorter distance.  So for the same level of average acceleration, we have higher performance now.  What we should be able to do, then, is decrease the acceleration levels across the board so that ships perform at about the same level in terms of the way they feel, rather than feeling overpowered as they do now.  It was not my intention to make ships more overpowered.  Rather, less.  And I think this will be a natural tendency, because the designers have a particular feel that they wanted for a ship in terms of its responsiveness, and they tuned to achieve that responsiveness, without consideration for what actual accelerations were needed to achieve it (or thrust levels), because ultimately they just care how the ship feels.  Now in order to get the same feel they originally wanted, accelerations should come down.  And when that happens, ships will feel less "sharp" in their motions.  Because the acceleration curve is eased.  It isn't an infinite-jerk model.   But it tends to spend about 33% of its acceleration ramp time in ramp-in and 66% in ramp-out (a typical critically damped acceleration curve), with the remainder of time spent in constant acceleration cruise.  This is changed from the previous model where it would spend 50% in ramp-in and 50% in ramp-out (a standard 3rd order acceleration curve), with the remainder in acceleration cruise.  In that case, in order to get the initial response behavior designers wanted, they had to have a higher overall acceleration, and a shorter, more abrupt ramp-out, resulting in a more stiff system where jerk was being worked around as essentially infinite on most ships.  So to try to put it into simple terms, the new system allows designers to keep the fast ramp-in that they want, while providing for a longer overall acceleration phase, with a longer ease-out to smooth the motion.  The player has a very fast response to any change in input, which is what designers want, while the overall motion is eased for a more smooth performance.  But accelerations do need to come down for this to play out.
" Regarding designers again, do you feel the tools provided to them are adequate to visualize and understand the impact of their tuning on the ship's flight capabilities and its very complex nuances within the simulation? Do you feel they have the proper tools to really access all aspects of this amazing control and physics simulation? Ships are supposed to have character, do you feel they can achieve that goal in the game's current state of development? To give an example of what I mean, the audio team is currently hindered by what they can do with the state of the progress on their interface with the ship's components and flight dynamics. This isn't about passing the buck, just understanding where we are and what is coming. "
I have answered this in a previous post, which I hope you can find and read.  The bottom line is, given the way designers want to tune the ships, I have attempted to make that as easy as possible.  I don't think it's possible, don't have the interest, and wouldn't have the authority anyway, to take away designer flexibility and force them into a particular mode of flight performance.  Also, I don't see flight performance as being universal for all ships anyway.  I want this flexibility so some ships can be hyper-performant and others can have more of a sense of inertia, all within the same flight model.  And I do believe that this flexibility supports a high degree of uniqueness with our ships.  There are so many ways that a ship can express its uniqueness, from the way its thrusters are arrayed to the way it performs in each of the different control actions, to its mass balance which determines how efficient it will fly, etc.
" Moving on from designers, am I right in assuming that your idea of having impulse-based thrusters limited by heat generation and power consumption hinges on, well, the implementation of heat and power as Item 2.0 concepts? Do you have any thoughts about the introduction of resource management? "
It's complicated, because I had heat, power and fuel management implemented in IFCS as far back as early 2.x.  So with all of that changing, it's hard to say how it's going to impact these parts of the system that depend on them.  At the moment, there is a disconnect between the actual simulation and the measurement of change in heat, power and fuel.  We measure the change in these values based on ship movement rather than thruster activity.  I don't know if or when that will change.  But I can justify the impulse-based system without recourse to heat, power or fuel, if necessary.  This is just a very different thrust generation mechanism relative to a constant-thrust system like we currently use.
" Finally, do you have any thoughts about introducing imperfect sensor information and delay of action into the flight simulation? I know you are waiting for the IFCS and physics to be finished before introducing dirty flying but this is a little different from air turbulence. "
Yes, I definitely want to do this, and I have been asked to do it.  But at the moment, my goal is to achieve as perfect and stable motion as I possibly can.  Once that is established and trusted, then we can introduce controlled error without fear that it will mask legitimate system error and cause the entire system to creep toward instability like it did during the 3.0 development phase.
" So you're saying there is a chance? "
Sure!  I've already worked out some proposals for how we could do this, allowing IFCS to work from a geocentric frame of reference rather than directly from the planet's rotating frame.  I think it's reasonable and would be very interesting.  But at the moment, transitions from space to planet are very unrealistic, with a ship immediately taking on translational momentum to match the rotation rate of the planet.  What should happen is that IFCS should immediately take on a momentum deficiency relative to the rotational motion of the planet, and need to accelerate into the desired geosynchronous orbit for it's current altitude.  But with this kind of approach, the velocity of the ship would always be given relative to this geosynchronous frame.  All ship velocity has to be relative to some fixed frame of reference.  And ship velocity is currently relative to the frame of reference of the planet itself.  The problem is, as the ship goes higher or lower in altitude, it is automatically dragged along by the rotational velocity of the planet it is fixed to.  If you're over a landing pad and strafe upwards, the higher you go, the more translational velocity is needed in order to stay above the landing pad.  But the way our system works, with the ship locked within the rotating frame of the planet, as the ship goes higher up in elevation, it automatically gains this translational velocity to remain locked at its geosynchronous position.  And as you come down, you're automatically bleeding off that translational velocity.  It happens for free.  No need for thrust, and no need for drag to arrest that motion.  This is the problem.  And I do think we can solve it.  We just haven't taken a serious look at it yet.
