" We still have an issue where pips are misaligned on various setups especially when weapon sizes are different (the glaive comes to mind), this is due to projectile velocity. Most users fire all groups at once. How can this be accounted for with ESP? Are there any plans to address this issue? "
Unfortunately the system is limited to the pip targeting location that is returned by this function.  It doesn't work particularly well with groups of weapons.  I think the proper solution is for various weapons to use convergence so that they are able to hit the same pip.  If this is the case, then ESP has all the info it needs to calculate the ideal targeting solution.
" We've noticed, especially in 2.6 that targets were easiest to hit when the attacker is moving forward. Could this step be a contributing factor to that effect? "
I don't think so.  I think it's more a factor of the targeting solution not being accurate for this type of motion.  It's just a fact that the targeting solution is not always going to be correct, which is why our aim assist system can't be so aggressive that it's imposing a particular targeting solution.  That solution is often wrong and needs to be refined by the pilot.  So the goal is for ESP to help you into the area of a good targeting solution, but allow you to refine your shot relative to that solution.  And the reason I suspect it's the targeting solution is because I can put ESP into a locked test mode where it's always driving the ship with the ideal targeting rotations, and when in this mode, ESP is able to keep the pip over the target even when I'm strafing to the side and circling the target.  But when I am circling to the side and the pip is over the target and I pull the trigger, I'm less likely to get a hit than if I was flying forward.  I need to adjust my pip relative to the ship in order to get a hit.  Which tells me ESP is doing what the targeting solution is telling it to do, but the targeting solution is off in this case.
" Would it then be a fair assessment to say changes in the rotation rates over the years haven't been accounted for, could this be a continuing issue whenever FMs change? "
The tuning has changed only twice over the lifetime of the system.  It was originally set to its ideal values at 1.3, then changed again and reached a good tuning at 2.4, and now we're adjusting the tuning again.  Major changes in the fm can require a change in tuning.  But the changes are not extreme.  Tuning has been fairly stable over time.  I haven't figure out yet why going back to the 1.3 tuning wasn't sufficient this time, because the fm changed to be closer to 1.3.  It could be higher acceleration levels, or faster rotation rates.  But I'm not ready to give up yet.
" What are the chances that issues with the targeting system (for example 2.6) or issues with IFCS (for example 3.0) will bleed over into ESPs function and cause us to believe there's an underlying issue with ESP? Is there any way to tell the difference? "
This happens very frequently.  There have only been two bugs identified in ESP itself since it was introduced in 1.x.  The rest of the issues have been caused by the tracking solution, HUD display, IFCS performance, weapon systems, etc.  Everything else has to work properly before ESP can do its job.
The main way I can tell when it's ESP broken or it's an external system is to put ESP into a locked test mode to see how well it performs when the ship is being driven by the ideal pitch and yaw values that ESP is calculating.  If ESP works well in this mode, that means there is an issue with how inputs are being blended with the player input, which is an ESP issue, either a bug or tuning.  Right now, ESP is doing a pretty good job of keeping the pip on the target, and I'm getting a decent number of hits when I'm firing, at least for the flight behaviors I'm testing.  And as of 3.2, ESP tends to be overpowered in how it blends toward this solution, forcing the player into the calculated ideal pitch and yaw rates, which then allows the pilot to get a decent number of hits, at least when using the flight behaviors I've tested.  But I do feel that it's doing too much and being too aggressive, and from what I've heard, the targeting solution is failing for certain types of maneuvers.  So I will continue to investigate.
