"  I am worried that responsiveness and smoothness of motion might be mutually exclusive goals.  "
These goals have been at odds, and up to this point the designers have been favoring responsiveness over smoothness.  So the main point of my recent change is to give them independent control over initial responsiveness while assuring smoothness when easing out of any change in velocity.  Before this change, designers would set jerk very high for both ramp-in and ramp-out in order to have the ramp-in they want.  Now ramp-out is generally twice as long as ramp-in across the board.  But this was how it worked in 1.3 and I've had very good feedback about how that behaved.  I'm hopeful it will get to that point again.  But I do base a lot of my expectations on what we had at 1.3, and ships were tuned a lot differently then.
"  Can they fine-tune the per-axis thrust values the tool comes up with afterwards?. Can they also tune the thruster's acceleration/velocity curves or is that something that fall strictly under your umbrella? "
No, ultimately they're just plugging in goal times per axis.  But I did provide a spreadsheet with graphs so they can quickly test what IFCS is going to generate for given times, and they can also work backward from goal accelerations to get to the needed goal times.
" It seems strange to me to implement these as IFCS concepts considering they affect components of the ships and are wider-ranging than just the control and physics simulation "
A big part of IFCS is the management of the actual force generators, and this, to me, is where heat, power and fuel change needs to be measured.  So IFCS managed these things within this system.  There was a complex power system, in fact, where each thruster had basically its own UPS or line stabilizer, so it maintained about 10 seconds of power and could draw on that pool without any fluctuations, but then as the system started to demand more power and was unable to work for 10 seconds with that pool, it would step down its functionality to decrease power demands until it was able to sustain 10 seconds from the pool.  This resulted in a 10 step system where changes in power would cause these tiers of thruster functionality rather than a continuum.  This is necessary in order for IFCS to avoid having to reset the thruster simulation in realtime every frame, which is far too inefficient.  The new system doesn't do this.  Instead it just has a time delay and does a reset if necessary after every delay.  A lazy power update.
As far as transitioning through multiple frames of reference, this is already a big issue.  When flying from space into a moving capital ship, for example, that's a change in frame of reference, and IFCS doesn't handle it well.  We haven't worked out a way to handle it well.  I think it will require HUD feedback and giving the player a bit more control over when this hand-off occurs.
