" Even if there is a way to make a ship hover or come to a complete stop, even in atmo, and while it is really not realistic, I think most of us don't care that it is not... BUT what we DO want is for the ships to fly like they have weight, mass, inertia to them so that it does take a bit of skill and flight management to control your ship. I think those like me are worried we will end up with an arcade feeling flight model.. "
I do share that concern.
I posted this on another thread, but I'll repeat it here. It shows the acceleration curve for a ship strafing upward in gravity and drag, coming to a stop, then strafing back down and coming to a stop. It shows the potential of how variable control can be as combinations of thrust, drag and gravity come into play. It will be even more interesting, though this case wouldn't show it anyway, when lift is introduced.
What this graph shows is that, as you start to accelerate up in gravity and atmosphere, you hit the maximum available upward acceleration, which is your upward acceleration minus gravity since thrusters are already compensating for that. Then as you pick up speed, drag increases, so more of your thrust goes to compensate for drag, and the curve tapers down because you have less and less acceleration to keep you increasing velocity. Then going the other way, as it starts to stop you, it can use gravity to help you stop, so the maximum available deceleration is your downward thrust plus gravity. Also, since you're moving quickly, you have high drag that's going to help you stop. As you slow down, that drag decreases, and that's why the acceleration tapers toward zero.
Then as you accelerate downward, it's similar. The downward acceleration is your downward thruster acceleration plus gravity, and it tapers toward zero as drag increases with downward velocity. Then as you start to stop, you initially have a high drag force, but that drops off quickly as velocity decreases, and you're left with your upward thrust minus gravity.
" In terms of hovering in the middle of the sky after stopping on a dime..... We DON'T want just some 'bobble' type system put in place to make you 'think' you are not stable.. a good example is the players head bob thing in game.. It feels so fake and unrealistic, words cannot describe it.. To see what I am talking about, go into a ship and hit F4. Notice how the ENTIRE screen is bobbing all around with camera motion? Why? That makes no sense what so ever. The image should be rock solid UNLESS the ship is moving or some outside factor is impacting the ship causing IT to bob a bit etc. But no, the entire SCENE is bobbling. After that, go back into first person while sitting in a cockpit. If you are like many of us, it won't take you long to easily find the head bob 'pattern'. And on long flight runs, it stands out like a sore thumb, that pattern. "
That's definitely not something I would do. I mean, there are behaviors that can be random. We don't have to model everything down to the molecule. But even random has a certain character that most observant people can pick out. Whenever I've used random turbulence, like from drag turbulence or landing turbulence, it's always physically based and motivated, at least on a macro level. And this is actually a big part of why my system is built the way it is. If you're sitting in a stable hover, IFCS as a control system is always working to correct any error between your state and the expected state. In the case of a hover, it's your elevation over a surface. So I can introduce any error into that system that I want and IFCS will react to it and restore the ship in a believable way. So in my case, it's just a simple matter of introducing some variation in the output and/or vector of the thrust that's compensating for gravity. That error, which generally is random, will cause the ship to over or under compensate, and IFCS will generally smooth that error out over time. It can be very natural.
I would prefer for all motion in the ship, cockpit, or on the player to be properly physically motivated. But there are a lot of interests that factor into those decisions.
