At the time Pete Mackay and I worked this out, the plan was for every ship to have a well defined set of thrusters, from low end up to top end, and not to be shared between ships.  I don't know if that is still the plan or not.  But the basic idea was, when you're tuning a ship, you have two tuning points.  You tune for the entry level, and you tune for the top end.  The ship is the same on both of these tunings, but one is the low or entry-level thruster set, the other the top end set.  Then the designers have designated what they expect for the base ship, and also what they expect for the ship after full thruster upgrades.  If there are multiple upgrade steps in between, you just interpolate the thrust capacities.  And of course there were to be other properties of thrusters as well.  Some might be best suited for stealth, some for racing, etc.  But again, this was meant to be done on a per-ship basis.  Perhaps there would be crossover for thruster sets among ships by the same manufacturer.
There is another point to this system that comes into play here.  Since these are all thruster nozzles rather than full thrusters, the measure of their throughput is all relative.  The idea here was that you can boil down the "power rating" of a thruster to just a single number, where the higher the number, the more powerful that thruster will be relative to lower numbered thrusters on any given ship.  But the actual thrust capacity, the thrust throughput, since it's a shunting system, would not be strictly defined per-thruster.  So let's say you have three different thruster levels that a ship is designed to support, power ratings 1.0, 2.0 and 3.0.  The 1.0 thruster set is used in the baseline tuning, the 3.0 set in the top end tuning, and then the 2.0 is just midway between those two, where the actual throughput capacity is simply determined by this power rating.  The actual throughput on any ship is a function of its shunting system.  So if a given thruster mount point supports a nominal thrust output of T, then the three different thruster levels will generate T, 2T or 3T.  Pretty simple.
It would be interesting for a main engine to have a limited amount of total thrust output, so that the total throughput of all thrusters must be less than this full amount, or else the available capacity of these thrusters will be limited.  That way, if you upgrade your mavs, it may also require that you update your main in order to increase your total thrust capacity for the full shunting system.
Anyway, this is getting way off into unofficial design speculation.  Like I said, this was the design that was discussed quite awhile ago when I was working with Pete and a few others on the overall plan for thrusters and thruster upgrades.  I have no idea what's actually being planned.  I hope that it actually takes into account the system that I built and works hand-in-hand with it.  I just present this to demonstrate one way that it could be done.
