"1) Why do the angular acceleration characteristics do not match the power of the engines (judging by my old calculations of 16 times)?"
Because the thrusters that generate torque for rotational motion are generally the same thrusters that generate force for translational motion, it is necessary to scale back the amount of thrust that can be used for rotation.  Ultimately it is up to the designers to designate how much acceleration to allow on any rotational axis.  Just because thrust is available doesn't mean that it is reasonable for it to be used.  From an engineering standpoint, there is no reason to suspect that any arbitrary amount of thrust can be applied in the control of a vehicle.  That vehicle will be designed to withstand the stresses of a particular level of force/torque, based on the goals for its performance.  So these performance goals are specified and they are enforced by the control system.  In our case, often the rotational torque levels are a few percent of the maximum amount that could be generated if thrusters were allowed to work at full thrust.
Also, and this is equally important, IFCS uses thrust in pools, so that it can always achieve the designated performance no matter how complex the maneuver.  So if you have a thruster that generates thrust for both linear and rotational control actions, and perhaps also that generates thrust on more than one linear or rotational axis at a time, the amount of acceleration that it can generate on any one control action (linear or rotational control about a single axis of control) is set aside and reserved for that particular control action.  So if you have a thruster with 1 million Newtons of thrust, and our desired rotational performance only requires 1% of that thrust, that 1% is set aside only for rotational control, and the other 99% is set aside for linear control.  The total amount of thrust for a thruster is the sum of all components of thrust that it needs in order to achieve all of its performance goals.  To say that a thruster should be able to generate 100x as much rotational acceleration based on its full thrust amount is to say that the thruster should use its full capacity when it can, to the exclusion of any other use.  If all you do is yaw, for example, you can yaw at 100x higher acceleration than if you were using both yaw and potentially other rotational control, plus translations, to their full extent.  IFCS uses a conservative approach where control is based on the guaranteed accelerations rather than the full potential accelerations, and this is a more stable approach.
"2) If you quickly turn the joystick to the end along the axis of roll or pitch, the ship will reach the maximum angular velocity very quickly. If after that, sharply return the joystick to the center, then the time to stop will take twice as long. Why?"
If I measure these times numerically, there is no difference, because the time to accelerate from zero to maximum velocity is the same as the time to decelerate from maximum velocity to zero, assuming you have symmetrical torque.  For pitch, you may not have symmetrical torque.  For roll, you should based on the design of most ships, but it's not guaranteed.  If you don't have symmetrical torque, then the answer should be obvious.  So let me answer with the assumption that torque is symmetrical.  Like I said, I have measured this to prove that it is functioning as intended.  I will measure it again to make sure it is still functioning as intended.  But assuming that it is, then I believe what you see is the appearance of a different settle time based on your observation of motion.  It is much easier to discern motion relative to zero motion than it is to discern motion at one non-zero speed relative to another non-zero speed.  So as you accelerate to maximum rotational velocity, it's easy to see when you arrive at approximately the max speed, but hard to know when you finally arrive at the true speed.  But when you're stopping, it is very easy to see how long it takes before the rotational velocity becomes imperceptible.  Imperceptable when accelerating is maybe 98% of maximum velocity, while imperceptable when stopping is maybe a drop of 99.9% of maximum velocity.  And the time difference between reaching 98% and 99.9% (or whatever it truly is) is significant.  That's because I use a typical feedback control algorithm which is transient, and is only guaranteed to reach 98% of its goal within the designated settle time.  The time to reach true zero from 2% in a stopping action can easily explain the time difference you observe.
Or it could be a bug.
"3) Why does input from one axis affect other axes?"
There are a few potential things you're observing.
1) Controller bleedover.  I typically use cvars when I need pure control inputs on each axis, because otherwise I have a very difficult time isolating one control action from others.
2) Unbalanced torque from linear thrust.  Because IFCS doesn't require that a ship limit its linear thrust to thrusters that are perfectly balanced on the center of mass, a linear motion can cause rotation about one or more rotational axes.  IFCS manages this, but it will always be there, especially when a ship's center of mass has shifted from its ideal location.
3) Gyroscopic torque from rotational motion.  This is discussed in my doc.  A ship has a set of primary axes, which are the control axes that dictate how it is meant to be controlled, but it also has a set of principle axes of inertia which are the natural axes of balance given the ship's distribution of mass.  These axes almost never align.  And when they are out of alignment, any constant velocity rotation about a primary axis will generate torque about the other axes.  IFCS generates thrust to counter this torque, but it is not perfect.  This is why you see thrusters firing during rotation that you might not have expected to see, and also why you can get motion on some axes that you're not expecting.
Or it could be a bug.
"4) If the ship is stuck (can not move due to external factors), then why when the joystick is deflected, the crossed IFCS crosshairs deviate from the center axis of the ship. In this case, when trying to fly forward, the ship flies in the direction of the IFCS crosshair, even if it is directed backward. Why?"
"5) Why does the crossed crosshair, while colliding, retain its position in space (although the ship is going to another direction after a collision), without actually considering external factors?"
I think 4 and 5 go together.  There is another discussion going on in here about how IFCS applies input to the ideal control frame rather than the true ship frame.  It does this for stability.  When error is small, this works well and provides much better overall control than if control was applied to the true ship frame directly.  But for large error, this becomes an issue.  I am considering ways to improve this situation, most likely by snapping the control frame to the real frame at a certain level of error, or maybe by smoothly blending the control frame to the real frame as error becomes large.  We'll experiment with this to decide what is best.  But I do recognize the issue, and this has been an issue since the days of 1.x.
I hope these answers help.
