This is all very interesting and I am reading through it.  But I am curious, when you describe all of the ways ESP is an undesirable part of the game, is this true even at the times when it has worked as intended, such as 1.3 and 2.4, the points where most people I've talked to said it was at its best?  The reason I ask is because I personally have always seen it as an unfortunate necessity given the realities of our space combat.  But I get a lot of feedback from people who, when it was working properly, mostly didn't think about it when playing, but recognize that it's serving an important purpose and needs to be there.
We do have a system where 3rd order control is necessary.  And space combat does tend to be high speed and long range.  Is it a better solution to force a short range, slow mode of combat, or to provide targeting assistance that allows the pilot to be effective at longer ranges and higher speeds and maneuverability?
Ultimately, what ESP deals with is a lack of precision.  There just isn't enough precision in input to provide the fine change in velocity that one needs to track a target.  Any small change in input results in a large change in angular velocity.  When we have an angular velocity maximum of 120 degrees per second and you can reach that angular velocity in 0.8 s, your target is 500 m away and changing velocity from 100 m/s to the left to 90 m/s to the left, the target's velocity changes by 10 m/s, which requires an angular rotation rate change of about 1 degrees/s, which for a linear input curve means you need to change your input by 1/100th of its full displacement.  With a decent curve, get that up to MAYBE 1/10th, but that's pushing it.  This is ultimately the issue.  The size of input change relative to the change in motion of the target is not reasonable without some assistance.  ESP attempts to provide intelligent, dynamic damping of input so that larger changes in input map to smaller changes in rotational rate, and when it works, it works well.  And this analysis is just looking at rotational magnitude, not rotational direction, which ESP also addresses independently.  The difference in x or y input of your stick to correct for a change in direction of your target under these conditions is just VERY small, too small to reasonably manage.  That's what ESP fixes.  And when it works, it does so without most people even knowing it's on.
There are many things that factor into this, that lead to this lack of precision.  High rotational rates, long ranges (and I don't consider 500 m that long), target size, target speeds, etc.  But we took the approach that we wanted to have a certain type of combat experience, and we wanted to find a way to make that possible.  And, again, when it has worked properly, ESP has given us that.  It's just broken at the moment, or still trying to find its legs with the IFCS changes and tuning changes since 3.0.
