Hi Reishadowheart!
It looks like you have the highest supported comment, so I'll respond to most of the feedback here. I'm a designer on the economy team, and we're definitely thankful for your feedback as we try to balance stuff correctly.
Before I start, I know that everyone is aware of the Alpha state of our game. With that comes something to consider: the economy team does not currently have all the tools to execute the gameplay we'd like to achieve. As more and more features come in, we can remove many of these stop-gap solutions to deliver the robust economy that we're all anxious for. When we release patches we strive to make balanced gameplay and progression for the features we currently have; we rely on feedback, analytics, and internal discussion to arrive at the balance for each update to the game.
In no particular order, here's some responses to your feedback:
One of the things we wanted to do this patch was give longer-term goals to the items that you can buy for your ships, which is why the price on many items went up significantly. There's a couple reasons for this:
- Currently items don't wear out, so they are a one-time, infinite-use purchase. That makes them more valuable than they will be when item wear and tear comes into play.
- Ships come with weapon loadouts when you buy them, so any alternate gun is optional. Since gameplay is not prevented (as everyone has one), we opted for a higher price.
- Analytics informs us that the average questing player is making around 1,700 aUEC/day, and the average session of those players is 30-40 minutes. We liked the balance of working for about 3 days to upgrade a piece of gear, based on our own experiences playing MMOs and the rate we'd upgrade.
- There is a lot of money to be made in freighting, even for people without Caterpillars. Many of these ways aren't utilized by the majority of the playerbase, so we're hesitant to change stuff when y'all are still leaving so much money on the table....
It sounds like a lot of people are looking at 1-seater ships as the first step in your progression, but we fully intend for some players to choose to remain in these smaller ships even though they have the money to buy a larger ship. We look at all ships in many different ways, and one of the ways is to look at these like different job-classes you'll see in a typical MMO. That being said, we want to provide economic progression even for the players who voluntarily stay in their smaller ship because it suits them, and with that comes items that take longer to get than a single session's worth of questing. Maxing out your ship should take significant effort, no matter the size of the ship.
One thing to look out for in this update is that the relative prices between items more closely reflects the actual performance of the items. We're putting a lot of pieces in place to make these items feel correct and make the value of items be more closely represented by their price.
Missiles have a lot of discussion as to whether they should be as expensive as a real-life missile or cheap so that players can use them more frequently. While we continue to discuss this internally, we'll probably keep missiles the way they are.
The repair/refuel costs were low, but we couldn't in good conscious make refueling/repairing be more expensive than claiming the same ship with insurance. We're working on a patch for 3.2.1 to raise refueling, repairing, and insurance expediting to more reasonable levels across the board. We're still going to keep it lower than we expect it to settle on, partly for the stability issues and partly because there's currently few ways to earn money on stations, so we don't want people to become stranded too often.
The inert material is a very intended part of the mining process. Removing it is what a refinery is for--and what makes ships like the Orion so appealing! We look at the inert material as a stopgap to represent the 'purity' of different elements you mine. If we removed inert materials, there'd be no way to differentiate the quality of rocks from one another.
We're taking your comments very seriously and will talk about this internally, so please don't feel like this is us dismissing community feedback. This post is to shed some light on the reasoning behind a lot of the changes that we made this patch so you can see where we're at as a design team and where we intend to go as we continue development. We appreciate your engagement!
Jake-CIG
