Hi folks,
Regarding the contact list/friends transition, we are currently evaluating alternatives to make the process more painless for players.
But just to clarify why it's not so simple to cleanly auto-migrate contacts to friends:
1. A friendship is a two-way relationship created after both people have opted in (the requester opts in by sending the request, the target opts in by accepting it), unlike the contacts system which creates one-way relationships without a confirmation step. As a result, we would have to dispatch friend requests to your contacts. Though we do have a limit on the number of contacts you can have, we don't have a limit on the amount of times someone can be followed by other people (since contacts are a one-way concept, this isn't necessary). Someone who has been followed more times than the current limit on friendships (800) will not be able to receive all the dispatched friend requests (or their amount of friends could go above the limit).
2. Friends will likely have special behavior in the future like being able to see a friend's in-game location, which you may not want to share with everyone you've added to your contacts. If you don't want all your contacts to have these extra privileges, you'll have to manually go through your contacts one by one and toggle a setting or unfriend them.
3. For mutual contacts, we would be left with the dilemma of choosing which of the two players would receive the friend request (a friend request cannot exist in both directions). We could auto-create friendships instead of sending requests when both people are following each other, but again you may not want all the implied privileges this grants to the other person when those features are added to the friends system.
4. People who have been followed many times may not want to be spammed with friend requests unconditionally.
That said, we're thinking about how we can mitigate the unpleasantness for players. We'll update you with more info when we're done considering some potential options.
