Depends on what we're referring to as maintenance. Typically most MMO games consider server maintenance to be a period of time where they take an environment down to do some backend work. I can imagine that these maintenance windows typically encompass work such as updates to the server operating systems, chipset drivers, preparation for patch releases, etc. and then checking to make sure that the updates haven't caused and unexpected problems with the functionality of the game. Most companies tend to do this on a weekly or bi-weekly basis and have to take down their game environment to do so. The added bonus of doing this maintenance along with the associated downtime is that turning things off and back on again often times helps with a wide variety of issues.
At least in regards to that model, we don't have to take down our entire environment to do updates like that since we're using the AWS cloud infrastructure. Since the game is in the cloud, rather than having to take game servers offline to update them, we can bring up a new set of servers with the updates and then swap them with the old ones as they empty out. We can't do that with everything though. For example, if we wanted to do some maintenance for some things relating to the database, it can make it difficult to impossible to play the game without running into issues since the game servers might not be able to get data for players items (depending on what part of the system needed maintenance). Situations where we've had to do that have been pretty rare.
Because of the fact that we don't have to take down the entire environment to do this kind of maintenance and thus, also don't end up regularly restarting everything, we have a tool that the backend services team provided to us (DevOps) which allows us to mark game servers with a flag that will restart them as soon as they are empty. This helps out with a variety of issues such as weird states that the server might be in, stuff that doesn't get cleaned up causing performance issues, memory usage, etc.
