Hey everybody,
I wanted to stop in and talk about some of the referral program feedback we’ve  been seeing. I apologize for resurrecting your thread, but it seemed like a good place to share all of this. We wanted to take a few days to think things through and make sure we understand your feelings, and I think we’ve made some good progress.
The most important feedback to me is the concern over the new player experience. There’s a strong feeling that we should not be pushing new players into the game without a support network. Frankly, hearing that issue come up so much makes us very happy... because it reminds us that you care about Star Citizen in exactly the same way we do. It was heartening to see that so much of the reaction wasn’t about winning prizes or the space cat but about making sure everything is right before you share the world you helped build with your friends.
And that feedback is 100% correct. We often forget that the Citizens who make up the community today are a hardy bunch who have been through the fire of game development the same way we have.  So we are on it! As you’ve already heard, we’re moving around some resources to support a new player initiative. That will take the form of additional video tutorials and beginner content to help bring people who haven’t been following us for so long into the ‘verse, and we’ve also passed your feedback on to the development side for their consideration.
Another big issue we’ve found is what has come across as the... I’d say urgency of the contest. Why such a push right now? That question has a few answers, and I’d like to talk about them. First of all, you are absolutely correct that we want new Citizens to join the game. But I know this has been categorized as a kind of ‘cash grab,’ and I want to add that I don’t think that’s the spirit of the thing at all. Why? Because we aren’t buying rocket cars and moon boots... we’re putting all that money back into your game. The more backers we bring in, the more staff we hire and the more we can do with the game. And that’s the dream we’ve been chasing, the one you’ve made possible: a game ruled by ideas that fights as hard as it can to always do better instead of being good enough. We try hard to make our marketing fun and immersive and part of the experience... so sometimes the sheer necessity gets lost. Every time we sell the game, development gets better. And there’s nothing else like that in the world.
That said, we agree with you that it does feel too TOO urgent. There are people who want the space bike who can’t imagine earning it in three months, there are people who want to wait until 3.0 to introduce their friends so they’ll see Star Citizen really shine... and we very much respect that. As a result, we’re going to be making some changes to the ladder, especially to add some more lower tier rewards for longtime supporters but also to give you more of a chance to get the unique items from the contest. Stay tuned for an announcement, and just don’t worry that you need to beg everyone to earn you a Dragonfly today!
Finally, I want to say a few words about the idea of recognizing referral program members. Another critique—a less common one, for sure, but still important—is that the contest rollout unfairly highlighted folks who have been referring since earlier days. Our feeling on this is twofold: one, yes we can absolutely see how that is the case... but two, we feel very strongly that backers who have been with us since the beginning and who have put so much effort into supporting the game, introducing new players and making the experience better for everyone SHOULD get a moment in the sun. If I could put every single person who has been part of the community all this time on AtV I would... but to my mind, it only makes sense that people who have given their blood, sweat and time to our dream should be honored. After all, one of the most wonderful things about Star Citizen is that every one of these people is just like you. Anyone can pick up an Aurora, anyone can stream the game, anyone can share the adventure... and we want the people that to do know how much we appreciate them.
I will close by thanking you for the feedback and also encouraging you to continue. What have I missed? What else do you need to know? I would also personally be very interested to know what you would like to see in a ladder update and what you’d like to see with regards to new player orientation. Anyone who tells you that this kind of criticism is bad or trouble or should be stifled is wrong; hearing from you in this (and everything) works exactly like supporting the game: it makes everything better. I’ll be reading!
Ben
