Ok I took too long to reply and @Tiranasta @Ryo-keen basically answered all of it :smile:
A few things I'd add:
Z-Buffer: It's true that the z-buffer prevents unnecessary pixels from executing, but there's still potential for wastage since if you draw something in the distance first, then draw over it, you'll still write twice. This is why it's common practice to draw the sky last in most games, and why (on and off) it's been common to do a fast depth render of some/all of the scene before going to full-price pixels. This takes us to...
Tile-Based Rendering: Basically this is a solution for the problem above. Rather than immediately filling a triangle that's been drawn, the GPU works out which screen tiles it overlaps and sticks it in a bucket for each one. Then after many meshes have been drawn, it sorts the bucket and throws away any that are provably hidden by others. This used to only be common on mobile, but recent PC GPUs have taken it up too, though it's a completely hidden process from our perspective
So yeah, as you can see, both of those are only good at reducing GPU work after a lot of processing to get the triangles positioned on screen. Ideally you'd want to kill a hidden object before you even Occlusion culling gets you something better, the chance to kill an invisible object before anything has been said about it to the GPU at all, but that comes with one major problem: you're on the CPU, trying to work out if one object's hiding another before anything's been drawn at all. So, some of the options:
Frustum Culling: Basically everyone does this, work out if an object's not in front of the screen. This only really gets tricky if there are big landscape pieces that need to be chopped up and culled separately
Portal Culling: If you know things upfront about the structure of the environment, eg with indoor areas, you can pre-calculate which rooms can see each other and cull objects in the invisible areas. A step better than this, you can do the frustum culling within that room using a field of view that's been clipped to the size of the door/window
Occlusion Culling: Actually working with occlusion data is going to give the finest culling, but the challenge is getting that information early enough to use it. One option is to have simplified versions of the models drawn with a low-res CPU rasteriser, another (which we use) is to pull data back from the GPU, though this means it's several frames out of date by the time it arrives. To compensate for the delay, we exclude all moving objects from the occlusion buffer, and a CPU process does the best it can to correct for camera movement. Unfortunately this isn't perfect, since parallax can open up holes anywhere that's been dis-occluded in the intervening time.
Finally, as @Ryo-keen said, this is all specific to rendering. When it comes to AI, physics, etc, they're not dealing with the graphics assets that we send to the GPU, they're usually interacting with some very structured data that's designed for getting them what they want, so nothing in our culling affects them.
