EDIT: I'm editing the post because I put the info you're really looking for at the bottom of a wall of text post and it's probably better to just get to the part you want faster.  I also made some clarifications between cargo pocket and cargo hold that has caused additional confusion among many people, including occasionally our own developers.
In the coming weeks/months, we are going to discuss internally the possibility of making the entire cargo hold utilize some form of sensor dampening.  This is not the same as a commitment to "make that happen" but we want to explore the gameplay implications before making any final determination.  We recognize that many, many statements about the Phoenix have been made over the years about it's capabilities, including some about this very thing, in efforts to address errors included in the original sales page with the best possible information we had available at that time.
So, while the current state of the Phoenix is no sensor-dampening cargo pocket OR sensor-dampened cargo hold, we will revisit this in the future and discuss our options once a better range of scanning gameplay comes into realization and we can more effectively gauge the balance implications. :+1:
ORIGINAL POST:
As said in today's RTV (available now on YouTube!) some of those statements in 2014 were unfortunately in error, or simply made with the best information we had at that time.  While I can't speak directly for Ben in those days, I can offer as much insight into this process as I can.
A ship goes through a lot of changes over the course of it's development, even before the finished concept is revealed to you.  At various points in it's original development, the Phoenix had a variety of features that didn't make the final cut, including the same sensor-dampening cargo pocket and no bottom turret as the Taurus, the consequence being it would put the Phoenix at a tactical disadvantage to the base model Andromeda.
By the time the Constellation variants made their debut in 2014, the only Constellation intended to have this, "additional security hold featuring DoubleBlind plating" was the Taurus.  This is borne out by examining the brochures that were released at that time and are still available for download in an unaltered state on the individual ship pages.  The Phoenix clearly states both a top and bottom turret and no mention of the dampened hold.
The source of the errant information came from three sources:
- An errant line (...it also includes a sensor-dampening cargo pocket for transporting sensitive goods!) on one of the ship information pages that was propagated to the sales page that referred to a cargo pocket that did not exist.  This was a remnant of prior development.
- The hangar ready model that's been available since 2014, built with some of those earliest intentions in mind, that was missing it's bottom turret, similar to the Taurus.  The turret was missing to accommodate the before mentioned "sensor-dampening cargo pocket."
- And most directly, due to the conflicting information between errant lines and brochures, and in the days before our Q&A posts, we addressed these issues on RTV as well as several entries like this on our forums at that time.  Unfortunately, in some of those early post-reveal statements, we doubled down on the error and a sensor-dampening cargo pocket evolved to become an entire sensor-dampened cargo hold.
When the Constellation variants were presented in 2014, the "sensor-dampening cargo pocket" was intended to give the Taurus something unique among the Constellation line, in addition to it's already "larger-than-the-others" cargo hold.  It does this at the sacrifice of the Connie's bottom turret, much like the Aquila sacrifices it's top turret for a specialized sensor array.  In all available documentation of the Phoenix that's been published, it has maintained the presence of both top and bottom turrets, and this is the surest sign the inclusion of a "sensor-dampening cargo pocket"  was in error.   Eagle-eyed backers might remember that I even perpetuated this error myself earlier this year on Calling All Devs, and it was this community that came to the rescue and pointed out that the Phoenix should have both top and bottom turrets.  That began the investigation that lead us to the conclusions presented today.
In some post-reveal forum statements from 2014, the error was compounded to state the entire cargo hold would now be sensor-dampening.
In it's simplest form: this was originally intended to be an either/or proposition, and in building the Constellation this year, we chose to stay as close to the true original intent of the Phoenix as we could, with top and bottom turrets and a whole lot of baller style. The Phoenix was not intended to have an entire cargo area be shielded, and there are no mentions of an entire shielded cargo hold in the brochure, the original sales pages or our own internal design briefs, only the errant mentions of a "sensor-dampened cargo pocket" that were in direct conflict with the bottom turret.
As for the post-reveal 2014 messaging of shielding the entire cargo hold, that is what we intend to re-evaluate when more sensor-based gameplay comes online. We know things change often in game development, and we want to offer every opportunity we can to align with this expectation, and will update you with any potential changes in this feature if they occur.
