for 1) im not sure they ever had tessellation, but rather very strong and fairly expensive pom with lots of slices. we still have pom for the planets, but it has a bigger impact with some textures than others and was adjusted in such a way that it's a) more performant and b) characters don't float above the surface.
also "back then" our textures were not necessarily as unified as they should've been in terms of technical specifications. they have since been to all be in line with our current target texel density (# of pixels / m²). whether or not that texel density might be too low or should be higher for higher graphic specs is something that will be determined down the line. right now(especially before OCS) we have to fight for every bit of performance, so they might be lower by default than what they should be for beefy hardware, but adjusting that in the future for when we can make a better judgement in terms of what we can expect performance-wise, it will be as easy as changing one value when a build is made to get those textures back to a higher resolution.
for 2) i was not around back when that demo was made, so i can't comment on how those assets were scattered, but we have since introduced ways to our current tech to get more natural arrangements of assets. you will hopefully be able to see the effect of those changes on the new celestial bodies coming with 3.3.5. they won't be present on the current moons and delamar, because they do need a bit of work and we want to hold off on that for when some other changes to the tech are done and then do it all in one go. just so people don't interpret this in unintended ways - that "rework" will be a weeks worth of work for 1-2 people on the planet team and as such have little to no impact on us meeting deadlines.
for 3) we since had to remove a "medium distance layer" of displacement textures because they were causing a lot of issues were assets would be floating above the ground(complex combination of reasons why that was happening). we are working on changes to the tech that might allow us to get the effect they were giving us without the floating issues, but it's still RnD, so no promises.
as far as terrain having become less realistic - you are comparing alpine mountains on an earth-like planet to moons. afaik the moons are very close to what art direction wanted them to be. there will be planets down the line with more earth-like terrain features... :slightly_smiling_face:
4) i dont think technically anything changed in that regard, but that's something for the lighting team to answer :slightly_smiling_face:.
