Hi everyone,
As the Star Citizen community continues to grow and evolve, so do the challenges and needs of Community Support. In an effort to implement operational improvements and internal oversight, we’ve decided to move from volunteer-based moderation to a fully in-house Community Support Team.
First off, we’re so grateful for everything the volunteers have done for the Star Citizen Community. It’s our personal belief that, while playing Star Citizen is a huge part of the fun, so much of the Star Citizen experience is the product of the connections we make with those we meet along the way. The volunteers have gone above and beyond in fostering this spirit and have truly helped make this community something special.
Looking ahead, we’re excited to begin growing our internal Moderation and Community Support Teams to provide the best service possible to our ever-growing number of backers. Having a fully-internal moderation team will enable us to provide more formal on-site training, hold regular meetings, and schedule rotating/scheduled shifts which will benefit moderation and consequently the Star Citizen community as a whole.
You may have noticed already, but we’ve added employment openings for moderator positions in our Frankfurt office, and expect to offer more opportunities in the near future in a variety of locations and languages. We welcome you all to check out these official postings as they become available, should you be interested in applying to work at Cloud Imperium Games in an official capacity.
Similarly, we’ve decided to temporarily close several of the language-focused chatrooms. We absolutely understand the importance of having a place on Spectrum that you can connect and chat with other backers in your native language. For now, the English, German, and French channels will stay open as our current staffing can support them. While we work to build the team for additional language support, you can use the Organizations features to create secondary Orgs to host discussions in your chosen language, although of course, the responsibility of moderating these channels rests with you.
As we continue to expand the support structure on Spectrum, we’re monitoring closely to gather data and feedback on which languages we should focus our efforts on next. Ultimately, our goal is to provide a welcoming environment for the community to discuss the game and enjoy the Star Citizen experience together.
It’s easy to forget that our volunteers are backers like the rest of us and are deserving of the same respect as well as our appreciation. I encourage you all to join me in thanking them for the time they’ve put in to helping the community, and we look forward to what’s on the horizon for Spectrum, Star Citizen, and Squadron 42.
See you in the ‘Verse,
The Star Citizen Community Team
## *UPDATE - Since the time of this original post, we have successfully moved our moderation in-house and dedicated more resources to making Spectrum an awesome place for our community to hang out. Many of you may have noticed some new names on the forums, including our dedicated German Moderator Kalypso-CIG. We are still searching for an ideal candidate to join the team and assist with our French channel, as listed on our official jobs page here. After careful consideration, we’ve made the decision to temporarily close the #fr channel, similar to the change we made to various other language channels in the past. We fully plan on reopening this chatroom as soon as we have staff on board that can assist with supporting the channel.
