Hi @SmokyB,
Thanks so much for the post. Glad to hear that you're enjoying the stuff we do. I'll defer to the other members of the Lore team to recount their experiences, but will throw out what I can.
As far as worldbuilding itself, that usually comes as a secondary function to your story. What we're doing here is a very unique situation as we're building out the universe (publicly) while we're structuring the stories that occur within it. The more traditional way always starts with a story (they didn't need to know about Coruscant or Kashyyyk when they were writing Star Wars, because it didn't directly apply to that story) and then move on from there. So that's what I would recommend: make sure you've got a compelling story with interesting characters who have real things at stake, then use the worldbuilding to fill out and reinforce that story.  As far as which medium to devise your universe in, I'll leave that up to you. Movies and games are tough because it requires a lot more to realize it (money, people, etc.), so books/novellas/short stories tend to be a cheaper way to establish your world, build a fan base, and hopefully lay the foundation for adaptation.
As far as training goes, taking writing classes and learning about story structure is really helpful. If you're particularly interested in games, I would also recommend learning some game engines and Design theory. That's one of the areas where I am sorely lacking in knowledge and experience as my background was in movies, and it's definitely helpful to understand the technology and theory behind the type of storytelling that's the most interesting to you. Otherwise I would just suggest to immerse yourself in whatever field excites you whether it's games/movies/books. Break down how they tell their stories, if stuff works then try to figure out why it works, if stuff doesn't figure out why it failed. Then just get in the habit of writing. It's not all going to be great, but you should just become more and more confident in doing it and learn to find your particular voice/style. I'd also recommend finding people who can give honest, constructive feedback on what you write. As many have said before, writing is rewriting, so get used to the prospect of iterating on stories.
Sorry for the ramble, let me know if you have any follow up questions,
Dave
