Where should I begin?
As a lead gameplay programmer on project who has hired many programmers, I can give you some insight for what I'm looking for. Keep in mind that teams differ, and managers differ, but in general, regardless of the studio I think you'll find my advice below to be a great starting point.
In my opinion if you're seriously interested in programming on SC or any other AAA video games then my recommendation is to get very good at programming in C/C++. Don't start with Unity and C#, hell don't even start with game engine. I would start with just straight C and once you're comfortable with the fundamentals you can expand your knowledge with C++, though you'll find that varying studios use the available feature set in C++ to varying degrees.
The most common denominator though is to have a very strong basis in low level programming. A programmer who understands how the hardware works and how software works in accordance with it is going to be able to transition very easily into any environment. You want to understand memory layout and management, data structures, algorithms, and various programming paradigms. After awhile you can expand to more complicated topics like multithreading and networking, and how those impact solving particular problems. I strongly recommend watching talks from Mike Acton and reading material from Michael Abrash, John Carmack, and Casey Muratori. Video games are performance critical pieces of software and the philosophy needed to go 60fps is often counter-intuitive for programmers that are used to programming in different domains.
After you've gotten your feet under you, I would next experiment with writing your own engine. Pick up some opengl and learn how to create a very very simple system just to draw basic primitives like cubes and such. Then you can experiment with giving these objects life my creating a dead simple physics-like system. Doesn't have to be fancy, just some basic intersection testing and then dirt basic movement. Play around with input schemes and then you can maybe start learning more about how modern engines use different concepts for creating asset pipelines so you can add rending meshes and textures to your engine. After that maybe experiment a bit with shaders.
Along the way you also need to develop a good understanding of 3D math and how it is used in games. I strongly recommend reading this book front to back and understanding all the concepts fully:
https://www.amazon.com/Math-Primer-Graphics-Game-Development-ebook/dp/B008KZU548
With some more time and experience you can look at creating simple game systems and get comfortable using 3D math to inform those systems. After enough time you'll have learned the fundamentals of being a video game programmer and at this point I would look towards using a more stock engine to see how the industry is getting along with the fundamental concepts you've now earned and learned through hard work.
As I mentioned before I would stay away from Unity and instead favor something like Unreal or any other C/C++ based game engine. After you've spent some time prototyping small ideas and projects you can start considering if you're interested perhaps in a particular domain. Do you want to do physics, gameplay, rendering, networking, UI, etc.. etc.. But you don't want to start there. Regardless if you want to have a particular expertise you'll always benefit from understanding the basics for how all the major systems in a game engine work.
After a lot of hard work and time you should then consider if you can contribute to an existing project like a mod or a small indie game. You want to build up a portfolio to demonstrate to prospective employers that even though you don't have the employment history, you have some worthwhile experience.
If your resume hit my inbox today this is what I'm looking for:
https://cloudimperiumgames.com/jobs/821-Gameplay-Engineer
The brutal truth is that we get lots of applications (as do all big video game companies) and if you want to succeed you'll need some way to both establish that you've got the fundamentals, but also impress beyond that. Having a degree in computer science can help, but not even a requirement. Video game dev experience trumps anything else, and if you don't have that then you're starting from behind and will need to demonstrate through some other way that you're going to be a benefit to the team.
Video game companies aren't usually looking to mentor programmers with the very basics, and even juniors just out of school are expected to walk in the door with a very good grounding, and the mentoring we provide will give real world context to the subjects they've been studying and working on in their personal projects.
Anyways, I hope this was somehow helpful. My personal road to the games industry was long and winding, so don't get discouraged if it seems like a distant dream. If you work hard and keep at it, you can absolutely accomplish those dreams,  but they will have to be earned. And once you get there, it was all worth it.
