This is an interesting topic.
First off - centre-weighting, that's very true that it's a good idea. I thought we were already doing that but apparently it's still on our to-do list. Doing it too hard would probably cause very annoying behaviour, but I recently realised that at bare minimum you ought to be equally weighting every degree of your visual field, which due to the flat monitor projection would mean you'd have to bias at least a little towards the centre.
Human perception - that's a thornier issue. It's become kind of a fascination for me that human eyes actually have quite poor dynamic range at any given moment, and a lot of our brightness perception is the result of the brain patching together many small, bad snapshots into something meaningful. This system's reliance on local contrast is how certain painters (and HDR photo software when carefully applied) are able to give the impression of very bright objects, by subtly ramping down the surrounding scene as it approaches the silhouette of the brighter object. Unfortunately I'm not aware of anyone who's managed to do that HDR-photo effect under game conditions without the brightness gradients shifting around distractingly.
So to shorten things, the reason your eye can handle a dark room with a sunny window is that it doesn't actually see them both at once, except when you look directly at the edge of the windowpane. The reason we can't copy that behaviour is that we have to show you a whole frame of data without knowing where your eye is pointing*. I would argue that the reason there even is such a concept as "the cinematic style" is that film-makers have been wrestling with exactly these problems for much longer than we have, and at least some of their solutions are still the best thing anyone can come up with.
The idea of lowering brighter areas and raising darker ones - this is very similar to traditional photography, where the developing photograph is masked to allow different parts of the image to develop for longer. It's theoretically a good approach but the main challenge is in identifying what qualifies as an "area" in a way that's both efficient and temporally stable. Explicitly doing it at the borders of windows and doorways might not be a terrible idea, but it's often those kinds of "easy" solutions that turn out to have really nasty edge cases.
I hope some of this was interesting, and I wish that I, too, were drunk!
(* Yes, with very fast reliable eye-tracking I think we could have some serious fun )
