What you're hearing is audio that's been crafted specifically for a linear form of media - but repurposed, with bespoke mixing, bespoke sound design, etc. for very specific set of conditions.  Linearity grants you a lot.
Imagine you're looking to get from point A to point B, spatially.  Knowing your start and end points, with certainty, means you can concentrate more on lots of things that enable you to do it with style!  You're enabled; you're able to push certain qualities, ways of expressing yourself along the way, because you have certain known, fixed conditions.  If I know I'm heading towards a restaurant, I can tell everyone I meet along the way that I'm going to that restaurant, say.  I can communicate certain things on my journey.  One can express themselves creatively , even  so many things become easier to indulge in because you're aware of where you're going.
Now imagine - 'we need to come up with a way for all those stylistic decisions to happen, somehow automatically, without human intervention; and we don't really know where we're going to end up'.
So you're coming up with system after system that attempt to provide the same results of creative expression that's afforded to those going from A to B, in the linear domain.  But you're not going from A to B any more, it's suddenly multi-dimensional, who knows what the player is going to do next after all?  You can add some cool sounds, but so much of what makes a sound really work in context is how it's laid down, how it's mixed, how you can change things prior to it happening to accentuate what's coming.  When you don't know what's coming next, all bets are off in that regard.
So what one hears or experiences in movies, and trailers, and individual pieces of music, even individual sounds - in all these forms of media or art where the 'A to B' of it is pre-determined, certain contexts are inherently fixed.  And you're experiencing a purer form of creative human expression.  And in games, in mediums where uncertainty abounds, where uncertainty is part of the appeal, you witnessing an attempt to get close to that as possible, but where we have to make it up as we go along.
Some games are more linear than others.  'Limbo' has great sound design.  However it's a 2D game, the stuff the player can do is constrained, thus it's easier to design.  Those games where not much happens that's off the beaten track means you can more easily get closer to the quality of fully linear media.
'Star Citizen' is looking to match the fidelity of linear art, coupled with the ability to do what you like.  That isn't just throwing in great sounds.  I could take all the sounds from Star Wars and put them in our game, and what would I get?  Most likely a mess compared to the real deal.
Trying to match that fidelity is what makes game sound interesting, and occasionally, amazing when you manage to come up with some system - or layers of systems that interact with each other well - that can then handle all sorts of complexity, and can provide the player with the sort of momentary 'coolness' you get from linear media.
But it's damned hard.  In Star Citizen, it's harder than many, many games I've worked on, because it is so open, because you should not be deprived of choice and agency.   At the same time, we want it to be great!  Maybe it's impossible.  Who knows.
That's what makes it worth doing.  It's frustrating for us working in the trenches, and it's hard to make players understand the problems inherent in what we're doing.  Just make great sounds!  If only it were that easy. :blush:
