Engine-wise, we accumulate light in a 16-bit linear floating point format, so that means we've a range from zero to some truly absurd number, with the caveat that precision decreases the higher you go. In terms of actual setup, we mostly use real-world units as much as we can, though everything's controlled by the artists setting sliders. While the sun's very bright, IIRC we don't push it all the way up to its true brightness because the contrast is too high. For more detail I'll copy-paste a bit of the reply I did when this video was linked previously...
" So what makes this guy's scenes look so nice?
1) Freedom to control light - to make a comparison, look at the quality differences between art photography and TV show lighting. In one, the artist can carefully arrange the subject and lighting tweak the film's colour response etc, to get the perfect shot. In the other, the set designer knows they aren't going to change many things shot-by-shot, so they have to have a space that can be viewed from a lot of angles with the same film. Games tend to strive for cinematic lighting which is somewhere in between (SC being no exception) but very often they're trying to do it under similar constraints to a TV show, since they have no idea where the player's going to point the camera. This tends to mean tweaking down the brightness of the sun and sky for example.
2) Global illumination - Offline renderers are always going to be the king for this. The artistic shots in this video are almost entirely lit from multiple bounces which have been calculated correctly for every ray. SC's global illumination is somewhat behind the state of the art here, we have fairly sparse specular and diffuse probes which are mostly baked offline, this means you don't get the same richness of subtle bounces around objects, but even newer systems tend to have to "cheat" (eg with ambient occlusion) to add in fine detail, since the memory and performance cost to store that fine detail would be absurd. "
