Error 30000 happens when something goes wrong with a game clients connection to a game server. Usually this is a server crash but it can also be caused by internet outages, problems with the local network, etc.
Over the course of the games development, we've fixed a rather huge amount of these bugs. Most of the server crash bugs to date have been written by me since I'm a DevOps engineer and have access to all the information and admin permissions needed to write the bugs (I've also written more bugs than anyone else in the company). In addition to that, I spend time for almost every PTU and Live release to calculate how badly server and client crashes are affecting players so that our producers can properly prioritize how much development time is to be spent fixing these stability issues vs other issues that might not be affecting players as much. The analytics that I use to gather information specifically for server crashes were implemented by Tom Sawyer ( Principal Server Engineer ) whom also helps me out by making improvements and bug fixes to these analytics. Our Player Relations team does their best to make sure that when these issues get fixed, that they call them out in our PTU and Live patch notes so any time they mention that a server crash was fixed, that often times reflects work done by multiple departments in the company. Since we're in alpha, we have a specific level of stability that we aim for and once we've reached that, we focus on having programmers address egregious gameplay issues.
As for what's causing them, that will change from one release to the next. Most commonly when we're making changes to core game systems or making new features, it will cause new server crashes that then have to be investigated and fixed.
The issue with characters losing their ships when the server goes down is a gameplay issue that is going to require additional work on persistence and supporting gameplay systems to address and that's kinda outside of my area of expertise since I'm not a designer. Thus, I can't go into detail on that part.
