Everyone's answer is going to be different for this question partially because everyone will be different in how they react to crunch times but also because different parts of the company can experience crunch times at different parts of the release cycle. With me being in the part of the  DevOps team responsible for the operation of our various server environments, our crunch times tend to come more towards the end as well as a bit after a release occurs since we tend to be heavily evolved in troubleshooting unforeseen issues that arise with the increased concurrency that goes along with a major update to the alpha.  With regards to if things are stressful, I'm similar to my dad.
My dad was ( he's retired now ) a chemical engineer and he told me that what he really enjoyed about his job is that he didn't have a predictable workload. There were certain things that always needed to be done within a certain time frame, but that was more on a monthly level rather than daily. So from day to day, work was always different, challenging, and interesting.
I've found that my preference for a work environment is similar to my dad. I actually really enjoy and thrive in an environment where things are unpredictable. With our quarterly release schedule that we've been using, there are things that can be predictable in the workload over that quarter. Any time we have a PTU build that's being released, I am either putting together server environments, gathering statistics for game stability, or helping to investigate issue that require someone with elevated admin access. However, the manner in which we do things changes and evolved over time such that it's not always the same. That's partially because the game is always growing and partially because as a part of that growth, things break and need to be investigated.
For me personally, the video game industry tends to be a good fit as a profession because I find the crunch times to be fun. I enjoy spending time investigating problems that are occurring and helping my coworkers troubleshoot and figure out problems with the game even if that means that I have to stay at work later than my dog would like :stuck_out_tongue:
