Thought I'd pop into this thread from the other one to discuss some of the issues here, I covered some areas in the other thread:
https://robertsspaceindustries.com/spectrum/community/SC/forum/3/thread/no-more-crewe-for-drake-q-a/2048795
The big topic off that bat is pricing and that is something the game designers and balance team have no direct control over, we can only comment on ingame states, desired roles and their rentable/purchasable aUEC value ingame. As mentioned in the Q&A there is the disclaimer of "often upgunned" and yes not all of the ships have this. Generally speaking they are all either upgunned or more maneouverable to offset their lower armour. I say generally because you cannot fit an entire manufacturers lineup into a nice cookie cutter, there will always be outliers like the Dragonfly or Vulture that do not require either/both of those things to succeed in their role.
Going a bit deeper into the actual complaints:
The comparisons of the Buccaneer to other ships are slightly skewed when you  remove a pair of S1's from the equation, they're not the greatest guns but they do count as items to compare against. Looking at the actual playtime and kills of Bucaenner pilots its definitely underperforming compared to where we want it to be, so expect it so have sort of buff (most likely handling) in the future.
The Cutlass for all the problems players point out, is reliably one of our most played and most lethal ships in the game despite being moderately well owned so it is definitely punching above its weight. The Caterpillar on paper seems worse than the other ships you compare, but again looking at the actual data is performs very well in trading and cargo runs which is really what its aimed at. Handling wise it is significantly better, often 2x the performance in various axes, than the Starfarer and requires less crew to man the turrets to provide 360 defensive coverage. The crew cab weapons could potentially do with a minor buff but it wouldn't be a significant jump if we decided to do it down the line.
