We use Perforce for version control, which is pretty much the industry standard. Perforce has a powerful set of branching features built into it, which makes branch management reliable and fairly easy to do. Our DevOps team have also developed an additional tool, named Infinigrator, that automates most of the merging between branches. When a new branch is created we visit an internal webpage dashboard for Infinigrator and tell it about the new branch, including where it was branched from. The same dashboard can also be used turn on or off auto-integrations between a branch and its parent, and allows us to easily change the direction of auto-integrations, so that it will automatically integrate changes committed to the child branch back to the parent, or vice versa. Infinigrator will then happily work in the background merging changes committed in one branch to wherever it needs to go. Only if it encounters a conflict that it can't resolve on its own is the author of the original change alerted and asked to resolve the conflict manually.
Our main development branch is called "game-dev" and this is the place where everyone's commits ultimately end up. We used to do a lot of development work directly in game-dev but since Infinigrator has made merging much easier to manage, more and more work is being done in feature branches. Each feature branch is a child of game-dev and usually Infinigrator will be tasked with automatically merging changes made to game-dev into the various feature branches. This keeps the feature branches up to date so that the feature being worked on can be tested against the latest code and assets. When the feature is complete, or the branch is starting to diverge from game-dev significantly, there's a period of testing and then the changes in the branch are manually merged back to game-dev. This part is done manually to ensure there's a final code review. Once those changes are back in game-dev Infinigrator will pick them up and automatically integrate them into any other feature branches that have auto-integration turned on.
Release branches, such as that for 3.5, work slightly differently. Again they're branched from game-dev, and initially they're set up to auto-integrate any changes from game-dev, just the same as with feature branches. This is so that while people are still working on features for a release those changes are picked up automatically. Once the release branch is set up, and all the completed features are present and accounted for, we reverse the polarity. Ok, we actually just toggle a button on Infinigrator's dashboard that tells it to stop integrating changes from game-dev to the release branch and instead integrate changes from the release branch into game-dev, but reversing the polarity sounds way cooler. From this point on the release branch is in bug fixing mode, and in theory we should then only be committing bug fixes to that branch. In theory. It's around this time that builds from the release branch start getting put up on PTU servers for the first wave of Evocati, and then wider PTU testing. Eventually the last build to be tested on PTU is migrated to the Live servers. We don't have separate PTU and Live branches because what's on Live should always have been tested on PTU first, except possibly for some hotfixes if the situation demands it. While all this bug fixing has been going on in the release stream, Infinigrator has been silently picking up all the fixes, merging them back to game-dev, and then integrating them into the feature streams.
It's not a perfect system, but it does work pretty well, and for the most part we developers are able to take it for granted that wherever we commit our changes, they'll end up going where they need to go.
