Hey @Terada, I understand the frustration but let me try to address your points.
Just as a general background info, the recent change on head-tracking was driven by the need to unify TrackIR and Faceware based head-tracking. It frankly was necessary for a long time. The main reason is that they were entirely separate systems living in completely different places in the code and each had their own share of unique problems (e.g. TrackIR users were not really moving the helmets, Faceware input was jittering around, etc.). This does not really concern players much but it is incredibly important for us devs. Because we need to avoid implementing the same feature in multiple places. Otherwise it makes the code more complex, less maintainable and in the worst case can even cause delays. Because of unification we were able to add more bindings, contextual head-tracking options, more setup options, smoothing for Faceware tracking and other things. All in all we have a way deeper game-integration and better foundation to build on. Adding new features means that all head-tracking users now benefit from them, not just one group.
So all in all ... this is the reason why we cannot keep the old system in place.
Now specifically about the exclusion of roll. As I mentioned before the main reason for the removal is the inability of actors to tilt their head. Stuff like that is really important as the animations are supposed to be synchronized over the network. We do not want to find ourselves in the situation where players can get an unfair advantage because they somehow manage to glitch the camera through geometry. So we have to be really strict about what our actors can do. We knew that this would be a bit controversial ...but this is specifically why we included items in the survey on that exact matter. This game is in Early Access after all which means that stuff like that is not set in stone.
My current thoughts on this matter (also judging by the votes you got on your post so far) are that we could investigate to allow client-side-only head rolling to some extend while being seated. Without promising anything for 3.6 we will discuss that internally.
On a more personal note ... I have been using head-trackers since 2006, so I absolutely understand the importance of head roll for the feel of flying. We are trying hard to get you the best experience possible ... but we also have to balance that against the whole game and the time constraints of a quarterly release.
I hope that all makes sense.
