Hey @Kerdou,
there are a quite a couple of statements in your post which I need to address:
1) Why did we even consider to remove roll?
It is simply a temporary technical requirement to improve head tracking overall. All non-Faceware headtracking we had was not really working as it should. It simply moved the camera and neglected the player actor entirely. With the new changes any head-tracking rotation is actually moving the head of the actor. In 3.7 you will actually see other players do head tracking as well. You will be able to express yourself e.g. by nodding or shaking your head. But in order to make that work, we had to rewrite several pieces of code ... and one thing that could not be supported so far was the rolling, as it conflicts with some specific actor code. Solving that is not impossible ... but it takes more time than we had planned for.
2) Why do we ask about the role of head rolling anyways?
All developers on Star Citizen (or any kind of software really) have to constantly prioritize the features to allow the best use of the available time ... with the priority not being randomly picked by dev herself or himself but the department leads and producers. Head tracking without the roll presented a good trade-off. It supplied a viable improvement for 3.6 while still being not too taxing on the dev time . However we had a feeling that the removal might be a bit controversial which is why we specifically asked @Baior-CIG to include feedback items in the surveys. The feedback so far suggests that it is more important than we had anticipated ... and this is a good thing because it enables me to argue with my leads to allow me to put more time into this feature. I am actively working on bringing roll back.
3) Why do we have a lack of aviation culture?
I have to completely push back on that one, it is simply not true. We have several team members (myself included) who wanted to become pilots but had to divert to other careers due to either medical or personal reasons. Within just the vehicle teams we even share thousands of hours in study-level flight sims and some of us have expensive HOTAS rigs at home. Members of our teams are also regularly visiting air shows (e.g. Colson and me went to the Paris Air Show two weeks ago). Even more important is that our community has loads of pilots and ground crews (civilian and military) who often share insights into how certain airplanes and instruments work and how they help the pilots. So I can assure we always have been interested in aviation and we can draw from a very large pool of knowledge concerning flight dynamics, avionics or cockpit design. Whether or not that can be used for Star Citizen is an entirely different matter. The average gamer likely doesn't want to spend 40 mins with a pre-flight check list or would want to cancel a flight because an APU reading does not check out ... so there is a good chance that we won't have that. On the other hand we are utilizing aviation based design rules for the next iteration of cockpit warning sounds. So it's essentially a mix and match.
If you see something obvious missing, chances are good that this is already somewhere in pipeline but just not ready yet. We are in early access after all and some things just take time.
4) A personal note on roasting: We developers are not required to engage with the community, we do this entirely as personal favours, often outside of our core working hours. So in order to keep a healthy dialogue going please keep criticism on the subject and don't speculate about the persons behind it.
