Before every episode that we curate pre-show questions for (we don't always do this if we already know the programming will fill the hour and won't get to them) we send those pre-show questions around to a group of people, including community management, public relations, the developers that are on the show, their supervisors and more.
We then choose to include questions based on several factors, the first of which are the most voted up. Then we remove those that are not in line with the topic of the show, then remove the ones that our guests don't have the answers to or the answers don't yet exist in a semi-solid state ready to be shared with the public.
Then during the actual show, we cover the talking points and content we've programmed the show to convey, mixing in the list of pre-show questions with a number that come in live. In some shows, we get upwards of 30+ questions done in an hour. In others, it's not so much either because the programmed content is sufficiently filling the show, or the more verbose guests limit the questions we can get to simply by virtue of the length of their answers.
All in all, it's a different alchemy for each type of episode. "Gamedev" episodes where we focus on process have fewer questions answered because the focus is showcasing the process itself. "All About" episodes are easily our most Q&A heavy shows, and often reach the high 30s in a mix between live and pre-game questions.
This weeks show was a throwback to the older Ship Shape-style episodes we've done in the past, if you remember the format back in 2016 and 2017. The Starfarer episode specifically was the basis in format for today's show. With the massive scope of the ship we thought this was a unique opportunity to revisit this format as a sort of "Director's Commentary" on it's development.
Of course, we never know completely how well anything is going to fit the hour, so it can be difficult to predict how long such a tour is actually going to take or how many questions we can include in any given show. Our guests did have an important meeting to go to at 5pm, and we often end a bit early when developer schedules mandate. When I felt we'd completed the tour and accomplished what we wanted to do with the show, I let the devs go so they could continue their work day late on a Friday without additional delay.
As for the questions that went unanswered, without promising anything specific, I do think we're about due for another overall "All About Spaceships" episode. Obviously scheduling and availability will determine when we can do that next, but I'll work towards it.
