All of the ships are currently operating at 100% engine power, 100% shield power, and 100% weapon power. This will no longer be possible without significant overclocking, which will have the heat and wear & tear consequences you've described. Overclocking is not expected to be in this first release, but shouldn't be too exceptionally hard to add after.
So, you will indeed be able to push power to bring engines to 100%, which will bring you up to top speed as expected, but you had to drop weapons and shields to 15% to do it (for example). Your shields use power to maintain shield health, so your shields quickly drop to 15% health, which is better than nothing, but only just. So now you are at top speed, and you no longer need power assigned to engines. Great, now you can allocate it again, probably bringing shields to 100% as a direct trade. Shields require twice additional power to charge health, and even then it takes time to do so. But you have time, so you are now at 100% shield health and top speed. Feels good.
And if your only goal is flying in a straight line then you're in for some smooth sailing - you don't need to maneuver. As soon as that is no longer the case, such as arriving at you're destination, you'll want to allocate again, otherwise it will take 7x longer than normal to come to a stop. You could do it faster than that, but only by sacrificing shield health or weapons ready - at some power level, systems begin to shut down completely, after which they must go through a startup sequence before they can be used again. None of this accounts for the possibility of combat, which complicates things further.
As for top speed, if it scaled with engine power it would take the same amount of time to get to top speed, just a different top speed. This means it also takes the same amount of time to come to a stop, so you have exactly the same maneuverability at any power level. Additionally, power level is a powerful tool for stealth, as low power items produce less EM and IR signals.
