Hello!
I'm a DevOps Engineer and also the one that came up with how we measure stability.
We define stability to be related to issues that cause sudden interruptions to the play experience. So server crashes, client crashes, and disconnections. What we do is measure how likely players are to run into one of these stability issues and use that as a gauge to decide on if we need to do more stability work, or if programmers and engineers can shift focus to working on other areas prior to releasing the build. For the current 3.6.1 build, the game servers have had an average uptime of about 12.5 hours before they encounter a server crash. Granted, that is an average so there will be some that happen sooner or later than that.
The reason why we tend to shoot for there to be a few hours worth of stability is because players need the game server to be stable enough to get through various kinds of gameplay loops in order for us to see if there are problems with things like server performance. However, we don't spend time fixing absolutely every server crash because some systems where rare crashes may occur are due to be worked on in the future. In cases like that, we'd be spending a lot of useful programmer time fixing a rare issue that would go away in the future anyways.
Now with regards to bottlenecking game servers, please feel free to clarify if I get anything wrong here because I'm going to assume that with regards to bottlenecking game servers, we're referring to performance issues. Server stability and server performance are two different areas. They're definitely related, in that we initially focus on fixing stability issues because that allows the game server to run long enough for us to be able to identify performance issues. They also run into the same problems when trying to fix issues. Addressing performance and stability issues is an iterative process because often times, there will be a few issues that contribute to a majority of the problem and until those issues are addressed, there isn't always a good way to know what the next issue is going to be. The area that's been a big focus for us for server performance has been what's referred to as Server Side Object Container Streaming. Given that I'm a DevOps engineer rather than a programmer, that isn't an area that I'd be an authority on so here's a Star Citizen video instead!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E0YYKIjEC0E&feature=youtu.be
With regards to if bottlenecked game servers can be turned off, we do something similar. What we end up doing is restarting game servers that are suffering but that's only a temporary solution and the problem will eventually come back.
