What steps is CIG taking to suppress the stall that SSOCS creates?
Same as with client side OCS it uses asynchronous jobs to spawn entities in batches off the main thread. We still have some work to clean up some dependencies that force the job to move briefly on to the main thread and most noticeable stalls on streaming are because of this. That said this is a continuing effort and when we've succesfully moved everything off the main thread then stalls should no longer occur and the moving variable is spawning latency instead, which we will also continue to optimize.
If the content creators just have to change the code implementation  requirements, why can't they just make things considering that? It just  seems to me, that they just said, that basically the teams are being  looky-loos until the SSOCS implementation drops. They can still build  career gameplay, they just haven't.
The first part of this is basically "why can't you just make it faster", which yeah, we are always working on client and server optimizations, regardless of our larger technical pushes like server OCS and server meshing. It's not like we stop optimizing code because of server OCS or server meshing is coming, even once they hit we still need to be incredibly vigilant about code performance. Making performant games is not easy and most games run like garbage until close to release.
But to your final point here, there are systems level features we can add to the game that don't impact server performance as much, a good example of this is say Service Beacons which don't require a ton of new entities or content to support. We will continue to do that, but when we talk about scaling the game we're talking about new areas and locations in the game as well as features that up the entity counts in the game such as mining.
SSOCS does not have to be a wait and see process.
This is specifically in regards to adding in a new planet, which is the biggest thing we could add to the game. It would be incredibly foolish to just assume we could add it without performance issues. Great programmers profile and profile often. Not doing this is inevitably going to end in devastating issues.
