Spectrum Alpha 0.3.5 - Release Notes
(2017-06-09)
New Features
New User Forums Settings!
You can now select your preference for how threads are sorted (hot, last-activity, top, new) in channels via the Settings.
You can now select your preferred thread view mode (nested, classic) via the Settings.
You can now select your preference for how thread replies are sorted (top, new, old) via the Settings.
The forum category default sort setting has been removed and is replaced by a user-specific setting.
The thread type chosen in previous Spectrum versions has been replaced by a user-specific setting pair (sort and view mode)
Threads will now persist your preferred view mode and sort if you change it from your user-specific setting.
A new forum category level setting allow you to enforce that threads must be created with a tag.
Roles: Community admins can now set specific roles to be tracked for display in the threads list
Forums: Threads list will now indicate which threads contain posts made using tracked roles in that community (Staff posts will be marked in the SC public community)
Forums: You can now bookmark forum tags directly to your sidebar!
Forums: You can now browse the tags available for each forum category and community index
Bookmarks: You can now edit your bookmark aliases by visiting the "Manage Bookmarks" view.
Search: New filters are now available to search by author and role within your communities.
Improvements
Categories: Improvements to the forum category threads list to include yellow unread markers in a tighter interface
Categories: More responsive layout for threads list on thinner window sizes
Categories: Major improvements in loading speeds for forum category thread listing
Threads: Spectrum now tracks if you read each reply in a thread and will display a yellow unread marker to indicate a reply you have never read
Threads: Spectrum will now properly propagate the OpenGraph images if a thread has a media preview when using permalinks
Search: UI is now available also on mobile and tablet size displays
Lobby: Presences are now rendered using virtual lists to allow fast display of large groups (no more: Too many users to display)
Emoji: Data set was upgraded to include Unicode 9 / Emoji 4
Bug Fixes
Spectrum no longer tries to apply style on link, emoji and mention entities
Sidebar: Communities are no longer partially obscured when the list is expanded
Lobby: Inline styles are now allowed within /me command
Lobby: Ensure the message is saved after editing even if only the styles where modified
Lobby: Fixed issue that prevented using up arrow to edit the last message a second time
Threads: Posting a reply to a thread will now properly mark the thread as read up to your reply.
Threads: New reply bar will now properly update once a thread is read fully
Forum: Editing a thread OP or reply no longer resets the thread last-activity in the category
Categories: Fixed misbehaving navigation bar and sticky header on iOS
Categories: Fixed sort selector rendering on Internet Explorer
Embed: GIPHY is now a supported .gifv source
Search: You are no longer obligated to provide a search term for results to be fetched
Image modal should now be centered properly on mobile screens
Known Issues
The search indexer is currently re-indexing all messages to fix a problem with badly reported authors. It should be done in the next hour!
A big shoutout to all the "Spectrocatis" for helping us test and iterate on this branch!
@ChrisK3 @Conflict_Viper  @Dast_ro @Eskel_Gorov @Holan @J0sh @Joth_Morrow @Malakie @lord_rive @Odeis @Seb71 @secretTempler @vertagoOne
Special thanks to @Void-Singer, @Kefeinzel, @WhiskeyOmega for being so relentless :blush:
"Cross My Heart, Smack Me Dead, Stick a Lobster on My Head"
-b
