Hey everyone,
In the next 30 minutes or so (~0135 UTC), we'll be opening up 3.8 PTU Wave 1 for all concierge and subscribers to test our current 3.8 build. Please note that this is not going to be a normal PTU experience, this is a stress test for Server-side OCS.
Before you jump on in, take a minute of your time to check out what that means for you and your testing experience.
- We are collecting data here on how SOCS performs when under the stress of a higher concurrent user-base. We need as many of you as possible to log on and play so we can monitor when and how things break. We know they will break, but we're specifically looking for when and how they break.
- This will be rougher than a normal PTU build. We know this and we do not plan to go live with the variety of issues we expect to see during this stress test. Expect critical issues and crashes.
- There's a chance we will be bringing PTU back down at any time if we've collected the data we need and the experience is not enjoyable.
We're looking forward to seeing all the ways you stress test SOCS and the clever ways you break our build. We'll be keeping a close eye on you this weekend. Totally not creepy, totally for science (and to make a better game)!
As always, thank you so much for helping us test our latest build and create a better gameplay experience for live servers. If things go well, or if we need more stress testers, there is a chance we may open up PTU to everyone, so keep your eyes peeled for more news this weekend.
See ya in the 'verse.
Edit: Post-weekend thoughts
Y'all broke our build magnificently, many thanks!
From our point of view, this weekend was a successful stress test. The build was actually more stable than we anticipated, which is always great to see. That said, we were able to identify more than 10 new server crashes as of last night, a few of which have already been fixed. We were also able to implement a handful of new client crash fixes as well. All things considered, we're well on our way to a more stable 3.8!
