We've been hearing a lot about the Redeemer for a while now.  The Star Citizen community has no shortage of opinions on the Redeemer, and part of this has been due to it's unique nature within our project's development.
At this point in that development. there are only a small number of ships in "Hangar Readiness" as we've refined our pipeline to phase this milestone out and bring ships straight through to Flight Ready status once they begin production. This is why you haven't seen a new Hangar Ready ship since Alpha 2.4 just over a year ago.  With this change, only a small handful of ships like the Freelancer and Connie variants are still waiting in a Hangar Ready state.  Those and of course, the Redeemer.
I'm certain it will come as no surprise to many of you that the Redeemer is a bit of an island unto it's own.  It was developed by backers in our TNGS contest, had a mild conversion to Hangar Ready status, and has been awaiting the combo of resources/priority since that time to be rebuilt into a flight-ready member of the Star Citizen spaceship community.  The biggest difference between the hangar variants and the Redeemer is that there's a current, flight-ready example of the Freelancer and Connie in game right now, so it's easier for the buyer to have an informed idea about what they're getting, either by watching videos, renting the ships with REC, or just talking to their fellow Citizens.  The Redeemer does not have such an advantage.
The Redeemer is currently scheduled for a rework in the coming year (2018).  As it is, like many ships built around that time (a couple years ago), it was done so outside of our current metrics and technologies.  As much of the community have already surmised, it will need work before it can take it's place within the pantheon of flyable ships for Star Citizen.  This presents an uncertainty regarding the Redeemer that no other permanently available ship in our store possesses (see above).  When it's time comes, we will have to work out what revisions need to be done, and what aspects we can still bring forward, with a mindful effort to maintain as many of them as we can, just as we've done with every revamp before this.  For this reason, and due the feedback from this community we've heard for some time on this same topic, we've decided the best course of action in the interim is to remove it from it's permanent availability until such time as we have a better understanding of what is involved in it's rework.
