While I'm not QA anymore, I still use the Issue Council to investigate issues so I'll give this one a go. I can't answer all the questions you had for QA since their workflows have changed since I was pulled into the Operations team but here's what I can say.
What is tracked:
In the event that an Issue Council bug gets marked as acknowledged by CIG, its status will be updated and there will be a symbol beside the issue to reflect the fact. Typically when looking for what we're going to track, we look for the following:
- Issues we aren't already aware of that have good reproduction steps
- Issues we already know about that players really want fixed so they know we're aware of it
- Issues we need more information on (In most cases we prefer to have specific reproduction steps but sometimes that isn't possible)
How we track things:
When we find an issue we want to track that falls into one of the areas I mentioned previously, we'll acknowledge the bug in Issue Council which will then import the bug into an internal JIRA project that we use to track only approved Issue Council bugs. When possible, we prefer to acknowledge bugs based on how good their reproduction steps are (not who gets the bug in first.) Personally, in the event that someone leaves a contribution that has better steps than the actual Issue Council submission, I ask them to submit their own bug so that I can give credit to players that have informative submissions. Those are the kinds of submissions that end up getting things fixed.
Example 1: a long time ago we had a submission on the IC for ship targeting in Arena Commander randomly dropping its target. The original IC issue for that got marked as invalid because it didn't have good enough reproduction steps for QA to reproduce the bug. However there were a pair of players that discovered they could get the bug to happen if they got in ships, faced each other, and then accelerated away from one another. I asked them to put in their own IC for that because the steps worked every time I tried it. Turns out the character was vibrating in the cockpit and just barely getting in front of enough of the ship to cause targeting to lose the ship. Once we got this issue fixed internally, we were also able to find two additional issues that were also causing targeting to break because removing that one bug from the equation made it way easier for QA to find steps for the other remaining issues.
Example 2: Landing pads full. That annoying error! Realistically, there's no way to expect players to be able to get good reproduction steps for something like this. It requires too much of a controlled environment to make sure the server being tested is fresh and then getting a server full of people to cooperate enough to get steps that make sense.  This was something we ended up acknowledging because while the IC didn't have reliable steps on how to reproduce it, it's incredibly frustrating to have happen and the IC can help us gather information. Like the target loss in the previous example, this one ended up being caused by a number of different problems of which the two worst got fixed. The error still shows up of course, but less than it did in the past and for different reasons.
Do we ignore older builds: Not really. The IC is a tool that's meant to aid with gathering information on issues that are affecting our players so if something has useful information in it, we're not going to ignore it regardless of age. QA teams tend to view duplicating valid and informative bugs as bad form so unless an older bug is just horrid and missing a lot of information, there won't be a need for a new one.
Do we go through all entries: Our QA team is split up into specialists because the game is too big for anyone to cover everything. So ideally, testers would be searching through the IC for issues that fit their specialty because they're going to be the best judge of if they feel an IC is up to the bug writing standards for their system. I tend to focus on IC submissions that have to do with game stability or back end services because I have access to everything (database, server logs, etc) that is needed to properly diagnose these issues. The most recent example I have of this was working together with some Evocati to find reliable steps on how to reproduce the medium marine armor losing its ability to EVA in Star Marine.
I don't think that totally answered everything but that should cover most of it.
