Hi everyone,
We've recently received a lot of reports detailing excessive griefing, and would like to take a moment to openly address the feedback and share our stance.
For a majority of these matters, a PVP solution is preferable. Frequently when these scenarios are reported to us, we encourage those who feel they are being targeted to rally with their friends and orgs in an attempt to fight back. We're not here to protect players from aggressors, pirates, and PVPers. A big part of Star Citizen is about that dichotomy. That epic clash that occurs when opposing forces meet and rally others to their cause. The wars at Jump Town were a prime example of the exciting emergent gameplay that can blossom when a lawful player comes face to face with an outlaw.
However, there is a line that is occasionally crossed where players are going outside the bounds of immersing themselves as a Pirate/PVPer. Some users are going out of their way to leverage livestreams, and other mediums, to excessively grief. In many of these cases, it's no longer about enjoying the game but rather, disrupting it. Stream sniping, pad ramming, firing into armistice zones, or utilizing various exploits to grief others... these are just a few examples of excessive griefing, which we do not tolerate. If you find yourself on the receiving end of this, we are more than happy to investigate, and in cases where it's warranted, we will absolutely intervene. Simply reach out to us through our support page here, and make sure to provide as much information as possible (screenshots/video always help).
In addition to better monitoring/preventing excessive griefing, we're also exploring a number of in-game changes that should help considerably. More info on that at a later time. And of course, in the future, the law system will also play a stronger role in creating consequences for unlawful behavior.
In the meantime (and all the time) take the sage advice of two wise individuals who once posited that we should all be excellent to each other and party on whenever possible.
