Hi everyone,
I'll try and give some brief answers to the questions, but I likely won't have time to follow up in more detail.
Ground Texture Repeating - The way the ground textures repeat is the same as all previous versions, and how well the repetition is masked is a product of the number and size of regions with different textures we blend together. In V4 the method we use to position & blend the various ground textures has changed, and due to the procedural nature of the system you can sometimes end up with larger areas of a single texture than is ideal which then makes the repetition more obvious. This can partly be alleviated by the artists spending more time setting up the biomes (both the terrain climate maps and the ground texture assignments for each climate condition), however we are also considering two improvements we can make here. The first is to introduce more complex 'biome brushes' so that rather than painting down individual textures and colours, we instead build a more complex brush that paints down a variety of textures and complementary colours such that we always get a consistently high detail biome. The second potential change, which may come afterwards, is to split the surface into tiny grid cells (e.g. 4x4m) and introduce randomised texture offsets into each grid cell to avoid any repetition, however this requires us to blend 4 ground textures and therefore increases the cost, but if this turns out to be a significant cost we can just expose it as an option for the user to disable should they require.
Large Scale Terrain Repeating - The terrain textures are already randomly offset so we shouldn't see the same features repeating in perfectly straight lines (as we get with the ground detail textures), however if there isn't enough diversity in the number and placement of the terrain textures then our eyes are very good at spotting the patterns. This is mostly an issue for art to address, and tends to show up most on very unique terrain shapes that just need more variations or to be used more sparingly. This is something we'll be able to improve over time as we get more experience building planets.
Macro Terrain Shape - On Earth we have some very familiar patterns we see on our continents, with mountain ranges and water being distributed in largely predictable patterns due to processes such as tectonic plate movements, the Coriolis effect & precipitation. On other Earth like planets these same processes would likely produce similar looking formations, and reproducing this in V4 largely comes down to how we build our climate and global terrain maps. As a result we're spending some time focusing on artist configurable simulations of these processes which should hopefully result in more familiar and logical formations. However we also have many non-earth-like planets which have no water, or tectonic plates, or are dominated by unfamiliar geological processes, however my personal opinion is we should try and approximate these processes to give consistent and plausible formations (though these won't be as familiar as those on Earth).
Long Distance Shadow - This feature came in quite late in the 3.8 timeline, so it didn't have a long period of testing. Over time I'm sure we'll be able to examine the weak-points/bugs and resolve them.
Pixelation From Orbit - This isn't so much 'pixelation' (as in squares) but yeah the patterns we can get from orbit can look quite unappealing in some cases. The are two factors here, one is improving how we set up the planets, and getting a better balance between local and global climate variations with more plausible large scale patterns (see above). When the climate data varies too sharply you end up with the equivalent of lush green valleys at the bottom of snowy mountain tops stretching for hundreds of miles, producing these large strong patterns from orbit, where in reality this should only really happen at smaller transitional areas. The second factor we need to look into is our 'variance maps'. As I explained in my part of our Citizen Con presentation, these variance maps are designed to ensure we maintain an accurate representation of the surface when in orbit. They store the local variation in climate data (not just the average) so that when we are very far away we can calculate the average colours of all the combined biomes at any particular location, rather than just using the single biome colour from the averaged climate data, and this can help soften the abrupt transitions such as snow->grass. Unfortunately I had to disable the variance maps for 3.8 due to some issues balancing the tech to work on all planets, but I hope to take another look at this soon (3.9 or the subsequent relese).
Lighting - The lighting at midday is unfortunately always going to be a lot more boring than in the morning and evening, and this is something we constantly battle with. This is mostly an art thing so nothing I can directly assist with from the tech side.
Asset Distribution - Some areas have better asset distribution than others simply due to the time/effort art have had to iterate on this, but the 'biome brushes' mentioned above should allow us to design better looking biomes which we can then quickly paint over the planet to achieve higher quality with greater consistency.
Ocean to Land Transition - The low poly / z-fighting issue at the coast is something we're actively looking into solutions for. The problem is that we don't have the poly count on the terrain in the distance for an accurate coast line intersection, but we can use pixel shading techniques to achieve the same apparent level of detail (in a similar way to which parallax occlusion mapping allows us to achieve something that looks vastly higher detail than the underlying geometry).
Flora Not Visible From Orbit - We've not been able to reproduce this locally, if you could point us to a particular planet and screenshot the same location from various altitudes we can look into it.
Area 18 Fog - Being discussed internally with art.
Weather/Wind Strength - All planets shared the same wind setup in 3.8 as there wasn't the man-power to balance each individual location, but this has since been looked at by art and design and should be more closely matching the lore for each planet in 3.9 (but I'm sure we'll continue to iterate on this to get the right balance on subsequent releases>
LOD Popping - This is unrelated to the V4 improvements we made, but something we're obviously acutely aware of and want to address. The problem is sheer cost, using the current tech to draw for hundreds of miles would bring any machine to its knees, its simply not scale-able to spawn individual trees for entire forests. So instead we probably need completely new solutions for building and rendering distant forests and other large scale asset formations, and this is a sizable portion of work so needs to be balanced against all the other demands of Star Citizen and Squadron 42.
Ali Brown
Director of Graphics Engineering
