I actually worked on the current door component we use in the game so I can give some insight here. There's multiple different animation styles that the doors use. Some of them are authored so that the animation is a one-shot open/close and cannot pause. There are others that are animated, but marked up so they can be procedurally driven from code. Whenever you're walking towards a door with a proximity sensor that starts closing, then detects you and then reverse and opens immediately, that's one of these. There's also some doors that have the bones directly procedurally driven from code, just basic linear interpolation, nothing too fancy, and those can also smoothly interpolate to any position or just stop at any point. So anyways the point is there's a lot of doors that can definitely support this behavior and we already kind of do this in one case. I also worked on breaching, where if you shoot a door enough it will crack open and unlock. That works because they use these procedural style doors and move into a position that's partially opening. We could definitely generalize that for damage, or come up with some method to purposefully partially open a door.
Now the better question is how you go about doing that. Anytime you add new features into the game there's a complexity cost you eat into. The more things players have to mentally keep track of the more taxing it is mentally. Now as a more experienced player that will sound silly, of course you want all the complexity and decisions. But the truth is not everyone is a powergamer, and so a common design trick is to make things that are apparently simple, but the more you engage with it and understand the complexity, the more you're able to be more expressive in the system. This is known as "lenticular design", anyways the point is if you make all doors have really complex interaction schemes, partial open, breach, manual override, security features, etc.. you may have just added a ton of mental overhead to the game, maybe that's fine, maybe not, but there could be some ways to hide it. Like put the panel to the side and so you can happily play SC for your entire life and never have to engage with it unless you decide to or learn something that pushes you to engage more.
So long story short, there would be some design and code work, but there's absolutely nothing fundamentally that could prevent this, that said not sure if something like this is on anyone's radar atm, though to be fair it's been a while since I've worked on doors which are owned by another team now.
