Depends on the discipline so I don't want to speak for all the teams, but for my part for gameplay it could happen, but someone like that is definitely going to start the process a step behind and need to demonstrate their experience to be able to do the job. As you can imagine gameplay (as opposed to say dev ops or tools) is a very "gamey" programming, we care a lot about things like in game player facing features in 3d that evolve over time. This is a very different way to program than say making a financial transaction service. I'm not saying it's harder or anything but it is different and if I had the choice between two programmers where one has shipped a game and the other has only played around with a project on the side, with everything being equal, the person shipping the game is going to be the favorite. Experience matters a lot, and while there's many programmers who surely could pick up the experience they needed to to the job well along the way there is a certain amount of investment time you have to consider for any applicant. You expect juniors to require a certain amount of time investment for mentoring, but even for juniors we're expecting they walk in the door knowing C++, game engines, 3d math, etc.. and now it is about taking all this stuff they've learned and applying it in a real shipping game with the extra complexities that comes with. If someone has a lot of experience, but not in game dev they're in a difficult spot as they probably don't want to be considered a junior, but also may not really have the skill set that we even expect from a junior, in which case they would have a higher salary ask, but may perform worse than someone who has less general experience, but more domain specific experience. There's no clear case and I go into every interview with an open mind and try to find for that specific person if they would be able to execute in the role we're looking to fill. I've interviewed plenty of folks without the perfect gamedev background we're looking for, but it does factor into the process. At the end of the day experience is the most important thing we're looking for, so as advice to anyone looking to get into gamedev as an engineer outside of gamedev, my suggestion is to create that experience by working on personal projects, contributing to mods or other projects, or making an indie game, something that demonstrates your domain specific skillset to shore up any concerns.
