To put things simply with regards to the title of your thread, here are some examples of things that cause both crashes and disconnections that are outside of our control ( this is not an exhaustive list):
Crashes and disconnections can be caused by things outside of our control. Crashes,: faulty hardware, resource conflicts between multiple programs on a computer, not enough resources ( for example not enough ram or having too many browser tabs open while playing the game), outdated drivers, corrupted game files
Disconnections: bad network connectivity,  outdated drivers, corrupted game files, running a computer using a wireless connection while near a microwave that is using the same frequency as the wireless signal, or my personal favorite being that having an internet connection near copper pipes
Given the examples above, the answer is no. Because there will always be things that can crash the game that are outside of our control and not all 30k issues are server crashes. However, before we release a patch, we do keep track of how frequently players are encountering disconnections and aim to get them below a certain level of frequency before releasing a patch to our players. Encountering a 30k every five minutes it much higher than the typically rate that we see players encounter this error so there is a chance that something that one of your friends is doing might be causing the issue. If you ever happen to find reproduction steps for an issue like this, please feel free to send them to us.
Now, I can tell that you're frustrated by the amount of issues that you and your friends are encountering. There are issues with the statistical model that we currently use when trying to measure if something is within acceptable limits for releasing to our players. There's a common phrase that's used in both statistics and science and that is "all models are wrong, but some are useful". The model we use is useful but it could be better. One of the big issues with using statistical averages is that there will be people on either extreme where some people won't encounter server crashes much at all, and others may encounter them more often. In addition to that, player behavior changes over time as they get familiar with new mechanics. As a build is available for longer periods of time, it's totally possible for the frequency of these issues to change along with player behavior. There are of course, ways to refine the model we're using so that it's more accurate and helps to alleviate these problems and there is work being done for that but like anything with video games, solutions to problems are rarely simple or quick.
Now, I can't comment on everything that you listed because my job tends to be more on the server / statistics side of things. But a number of the issues that you list are things that we're already aware of and investigating. However! One thing I do like to point out is that often times there can be multiple bugs that all have the same overall effect, or there can be multiple issues that seem to be different problems that might all be caused by one underlying issue. The reason why I want to point that out is because sometimes if it feels like a particular issue is getting worse, it can be cause there are actually multiple bugs causing what might appear to be the same thing. , After we fix some of them, it's useful for us to know which ones are still happening so we can investigate things further. Particularly with things like missing components. Those bugs are complex and various.
