pcache (persistence cache) is the legacy system, using a monolithic cache for queries to the persistent item DB. As you can imagine, this does not scale well, and worse, when it goes down the game becomes essentially unplayable. For everyone! The new icache (item cache) uses a proliferated fleet of services to optimize querying in a scalable fashion, while using best practices for fault tolerance and recovery so for example all nodes have their data replicated in the network so even if one goes down, only partial data response is briefly lost and quickly a new one is rebuilt in it's place, so automatic regeneration. The new icache is also being built with our gameplay systems in mind and understanding of how we need to query data from game servers. At this point we have  a much better idea of how the game works than when the legacy p cache was created, so we can design our item data and query schema to make this new system efficient and minimal, which will also help with stability and scalability.
Global persistence is the term some of you may have noticed me bringing up in some of my comments and that's because it is a related but different feature set that also needs to be implemented. Just because you have a database and cool querying system for that data doesn't mean the game somehow automatically uses it in all the game systems, nor does it make servers/shards have persistent state, it just gives you a tool to use to enable that. In order to get server history persisted for everything you need to do a lot of work in server code to persist out and load back in said state, this is global persistence. I bring it up all the time because it touches so much, for example physical inventory. Inventory are just containers of items, but they are physicalized because they themselves are persistent entities with state. This means you can have a back pack with weapons or other items in it and have a way to stow/unstow from that inventory, but also that inventory can be instanced in the world and left in a vehicle or dropped off on the top of a mountain on a moon for another player to pickup. So physical inventory relies on global persistence, which relies on icache.
But there are other features that rely on global persistence as well, for example now we can explore gameplay that can permanently or on long term scales modify locations in the game, for example space station damage. Port Olisar could suffer an attack on a shard and it would be damaged for some time until repairs could take place. This would persist even if the server/shard went down as it is no longer just in memory state. There's a ton more, such as full server recovery after server crash. People often complain about losing cargo after a server crash, as we can't get players back into their ships right now after a server crash unlike a client crash we we lose the state of the server. With global persistence this will be recorded in the shard record it was associated with, so quickly we spin up another instance, it recovers the shard record, then we can use match making to get players back into the shard they just lost connection to, and boom, they're back in action right where they left off.
Hope that helps?
