Hi @Tangbao_Crais,
I'll do my best to get through these:
1. Sure, it's a bit strange, but as @H0wland pointed out, these systems are proving to be pretty massive, for example, look at how the area above Crusader is getting a little crazy with crime and that's a UEE system, so it seems to me that it's definitely possible that you could have unclaimed systems next to UEE  ones and not really have ongoing conflict. It's also worth noting that the outlaw elements in Cathcart were meant to be hiding among the massive junk that was dumped in the system, so they could mostly keep to themselves.
2. There are a couple of the species in Fair Chance planets that were in primitive states of development. I'm hoping that we can get a lot weirder with their physiology because they won't be building ships.
3. Yeah, the decision not to have AI was more of a stylistic choice for the direction of the universe/game. While a lot of people theorize that AI will probably play a big part in real life development, Chris wanted the universe to feel tactile where the player was being much more active. Basically, if there were AI supercomputers that could pilot your ship and react within nanoseconds with pinpoint precision, why would you ever fly a ship? You'd be outgunned, outmaneuvered at every turn, so most likely you'd just tell your ship to go do something, then hang out. That feels like a very dull game. The idea was to put you in the pilot seat, pitting your skills against another pilot's skills, that classic dogfighting, so that was part of the reasoning behind establishing the fact that Humanity has abandoned the pursuit of AI tech.
4. I'm not sure if we hit 50/50 ratio, but there are definitely Human expatriate communities in both Banu and Xi'an space.
5. Yup, that's the goal.
6. Yes, Ivar Messer adopted the title Imperator (after creating the Prime Citizen role that would act as the final voice in UEE policy). Once the Messers were overthrown, they kept the title but took away some of the power by reestablishing the powers of the High Advocate, High Secretary and High Command then added safeguards to prevent someone from seizing that kind of power again. But yes, the names stayed the same.
Dave
