## Update #4: Winners Announcement
We have found our winners. Many thanks to all participants and the crews who selflessly supported them in this contest. That is the spirit of Foundation Festival: to achieve more together and to stand up for each other. I love being part of such a great gaming community!
:first_place_medal: 1st Place: @SpaceTomato Team: The Garden | "No man left behind."
:second_place_medal: 2nd Place: @ectropy Ectropy & Salvesti Search & Rescue | 'When everything has gone wrong and you're in need of affordable search & rescue services, ESSR is the right call."
:third_place_medal: 3rd Place: @ajaxfrog Team: TLB Special Armed Forces (aka "the Cleaners") | "No matter the danger, we specialize in restoring peace to your region through high risk operations."
Update#3: Hello, everyone. Just wanted to let you know that we will announce the winners of the 2950 Foundation Festival - Crew Contest on Monday. Your screenshots are epic!
Update #2: Thank you for your fantastic screenshots, everyone!
This contest's submission period has just ended, and we have now started the internal voting process and will announce the winners soon.
Update from TWISC: the Foundation Festival continues! We know that many of you incredible Guides out there have been waiting for the new players coming to check out Alpha 3.10 before diving in. Because Alpha 3.10’s delayed arrival put a wrench in those plans, we’re going to be extending the Foundation Festival rewards and the related screenshot contest until August 19th.
The 'verse is full of dangers, chances, and opportunities that are better faced together. But who are you, and what defines your community? It's time to update your friend list and join a server; we want to know your name and what you're famous for!
We're looking for the three most breathtaking action screenshots of you and your crew, whether it's hijacking a cargo vessel, asking microTech's wealthy businessmen for a "voluntary" donation, tracking a fugitive across Hurston's moons, making Stanton's biggest mining claim, or something entirely different.
Show us what you can achieve together and convince us with a brief-but-catchy sentence of what makes you the most magnificent crew in the 'verse. And don't forget to tell us your team's name.
Good luck, everyone!
Rules
Before you get started, be sure to read up on the Contest Rules here.
You have until 11:59 pm Pacific on August 19, 2020 to add your images and description to the 2950 Foundation Festival - Crew Contest - Submission Thread.
Prizes
Three winners will be selected and will receive one of the prizes below:
:first_place_medal: 1st Place: ARGO Mole in-game standalone ship with LTI (in-game lifetime insurance)
:second_place_medal: 2nd Place: AEGIS Retaliator Bomber in-game standalone ship with LTI (in-game lifetime insurance)
:third_place_medal: 3rd Place: MISC Freelancer in-game standalone ship with LTI (in-game lifetime insurance)
Notes
- Tell us your team's name and why you and your friends are the best crew to get the job done in one sentence.
- Upload a high-quality action screenshot of you all working together on the job described.
- Only one submission per person and team.
- No post-processing effects allowed. This includes 3rd party add-ons, like ReShade.
- No org advertising.
- Only the screenshot contributor is eligible to win a prize.
- The submission language must be English
Contest ends: August 19, 2020 (11:59 pm Pacific)
