@Anaryl pretty much nailed it with their comment but i'll clarify too. Scoring recently went through a rework, now instead of a flat 100 for getting the last hit you'll get score for damage, up to 100 - this has been upped to 200 in 3.10. So you and a partner can do 50% damage each and get 100 score each. Sometimes someone can die before 100% damage is dealt so the remaining score pool is split amongst everyone who assisted; that score bonus is also based on your damage contribution. ie do 70% damage (gaining 140 score), the person bleeds out you should be awarded the remaining 60 score on death of the target, if you were the only attacker; since you did 100% of that 70%. This was mainly a solution for AC scoring which was very easy to abuse, but to simplify things we merged SM and AC to use the same score system - where previously they were separate and both over-complicated.
Occasionally a new gun/combat type will come along that'll break this (melee combat being one) but we try our best to fix those as soon as theyre spotted but if you do spot anything giving more/less score than you'd expect do please report to the Issue Council.
A big problem with the old scoring system was you got awarded for how much damage you outputted, no matter if resists negated it (ie high rate of fire, low damage could farm points in AC) or if the player dies for a fraction of that damage (ie the railgun would award thousands for a single kill). New system gives us more control over how much youre actually being awarded.
The scoring rework is not done. We still have to refactor & rebalance Awards (headshots, bleed out kills, killing spree etc) and do a balance pass to make SM and AC games award similar scores so we dont end up with the situation we've had for years where people farm REC in AC to use in SM cause SM never gave enough score. That balance pass should happen soon™ but in the mean time since 3.9 I've added a 50% bonus to SM REC as well as the Score to REC conversion being upped to 50% (from 10%) for all modes. ToW is my highest priority right now but im excited about getting Awards refactored, balanced & adding more.
I cant really comment on anything leaderboard related. That's not my team but im sure we'll review it once scoring is in a good place.
