Hey @Plazmataz - Totally agree that additions are needed for the system - and we're looking forward to expanding on what we have. I very much share your enthusiasm for better automation, discoverability, and tracking. We are indeed tracking total time spent as a guide, specifically so that we have multiple metrics to use when identifying "prolific guides", so I would not feel like your efforts have been lost at all - I was merely sharing an explanation for what triggers a "succesful guide" merit, which will evolve and change over time as we get close to the system becoming more robust and automated. If we find that a majority of sessions are similar to yours, we may simply adjust what we consider a "succesful guide". Ultimately, we want those putting in the time to be awesome to be rewarded for their efforts and we're okay with being dynamic in achieving that. Longer term, we'll have something much more static and easier to track so that guides can set personal goals and chase rewards.
I wouldn't worry about being counted out for being AFK. We fully understand that many folks take it to a third party platform to continue discussion. Without going into detail that reveals protections (because that just helps folks exploit them) - I'll assure you that these are in place to help us identify folks specifically teaming up with a friend/orgmate to fraudulently use the guide system for quick merits. You won't get caught up in the mix with that.
The guide sessions you did before V2 are also not lost - our long term plan is a robust system that awards merits that can be spent on a number of rewards. We've mentioned in the past that we will retroactively reward those merits when the full system comes online, dating back to the initial launch of the Guide System.
Agree with the Guide System being in the launcher, but we won't stop there - we'd like to integrate the entirety of the Welcome Hub into the Launcher, alongside with elements of the Guide System even being in-game.
Lastly, ideally we would have released Alpha 3.10 earlier during the Foundation Festival, which would have helped guides due to the influx of new players. For this reason, we're currently discussing options, whether it's an extension of the contest, or additional prizes.
