I can only speak from VFX point of view so take that into account.
SDF is just a type of data but a really cool one. Distance Fields are generated for a specific object and data stored in them are bespoke to that object. So a distance field of a Gladius would be a 3d texture where every single pixel stores the closest distance to the surface of the Gladius. How pixels can store distance? Well, each pixel can store up to 4 numbers (red, green, blue, alpha). Usually these numbers represent colours but in games we bend a lot of rules and we use textures for storing data. For distance we only need one number and it's why SDF textures only need a single channel. Word "Signed" refers to the fact that pixel can store values below 0 (such as -42.123 or -0.123123). Unsigned textures can only store values >=0. And yea, negative pixels cannot be displayed on your screen (unless you have NASA monitor which can display negative light).
Ok, but how do we use them? Our particles can collide with SDFs. This is great because we lost a lot of collision functionality when we switched from CPU to GPU particle system. Not because we were loafing around but because it is really difficult to do collisions with the environment for any GPU particle system (not just ours but any particle system in games in general). You have to have some form of geometry representation which can be easily accessed by the GPU and textures are the equivalent of the golden ticket to Willy Wonka's factory of particle collisions. We had Z-buffer collision for quite a while but that has the limitation of not being able to collide with objects which are not rendered (including back side of geometry).
Because we can collide with SDFs we can use existing particle system functionality to spawn other particles at the collision point. Particles can also avoid SDFs (by treating SDFs as a source of negative force), be attracted by them or flow along the surface. New atmospheric entry uses this a lot. We are literally shooting invisible particles at a ship and when they collide we spawn actual visible atmospheric entry particles and we let them slide along the surface.
What else? I definitely missed few use cases for SDFs we have in the VFX as I didn't consult the team before answering this question but... the sky's the limit! It's a really nice, compact, efficient and useful piece of data and I'm pretty sure with time we will find other crazy use cases for them. There is a lot going on with SDFs on AI and physics side of things. But I'm not an expert on that so I will remain silent!
