I addressed the first 5 points & racing in a reply above.
- Currently we have 2 survival modes where one was copy pasted from the other , the vanduul ships behave the exact same as the pirate ships limiting strategic planning and learning how to behave in the various combat scenario's both modes present. I suggest adding modes that force us to react during certain situations ( like having 2 teams where one needs to destroy a javelin and the other protect it )
We're updating all modes/maps to be more "scenario" based, each with their own purpose. Pirate Swarm you're fighting famous pirates of the past, they start off in junkers and eventually work their way up into squads of gladius's before a massive fleet fight that includes a Hammerhead. https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/transmission/17281-Ominous-Tides That rework happened last year but there's still more to do. I want to add the unique ships that these pirates are known for, some cinematic work, difficulty settings and rework the AI wingmen; among other things.
Vanduul Swarm hasnt been reworked yet, its one of the things we want to do as the first Theaters of War scenario finishes up. Currently it does offer slightly different gameplay, where you're facing a lot more enemies who are very squashy and all use fixed weapons - for us its a great way to gauge the performance of AI with fixed weapons.
Again adding new modes/scenarios is something im super excited to do but bare in mind the AC/SM (EA) team is very small. Right now our focus is Theaters of War; alongside that we want to continue bringing existing maps/modes up to the quality we'd expect.
- Enemy AI has not been adjust properly towards the new flight model , it is currently too easy to dispatch enemy vessel into the boundaries on the map
The AI team do a wonderful job of updating the AI each patch, adjusting to all the new stuff we're adding and experimenting with. There's a world of difference between the AI seen in swarm modes last year and whats seen now and its great to see it constantly improving; im sure the AI team are keeping an eye on the modes but if you feel there's specific problems do report it to the IC so they see that report!
