I read that Client Side OCS allowed the engine to skip update ticks for certain entities based on distance to the player. The futher away an entity is, the more ticks are skipped. Does this mean that for that entity the actual game tick rate in the game loop is being reduced on the server, or does that only refer to the network update tick rate to the player client?
Client Side OCS allows us to stream out entities on clients so that they don't update at all and this does not effect the server behavior whatsoever.. There is a separate entity component update system that handles updating spawned entities, and this allows for many various configurations to optimize performance, including distance to players, player visibility, time ranges, etc..., but this update policy will be the same on the server and client for any given entity component.
And on a similar note: Does the player client itself simulate the nearby  entities like the game server does and rollback/overwrite certain  states when the state between client and server dont line up anymore  (what we would know as rubberbanding or desync), or does the player  client merely receive the changed state of entities from the server and  update its own state without simulating its own state as well? If the  latter is the case, is the upcoming Actor Networking Rework a step  toward the former?
The most straightforward approaches will just snap to the server state on the client, but programmers can always make more sophisticated systems that handle things like interpolation, etc..., to make the client behavior look more natural. And yes, this is part of the work for the actor network changes. Player movement and animation is something people are highly attuned to seeing flaws in (we are humans after all) and getting it looking natural and fluid is a ton of work. You also have to take into considerations the impact on gameplay, for example your dead reckoning implementation may end up favoring people shooting rather than the people getting shot, where a server discrepancy occurs.
