@adelys, there is a lot to unpack, so I'll try to address a few of your points:
1) The 1 lock per rack limitation: This is just a temporary measure which has more to do with limitations on certain missile racks (not all of them can launch multiple missiles at the same time). We absolutely want to give players the ability to launch big salvos but we also think that this process must come at a bigger price than just smashing the same button twenty times. Changes in this regard will happen with the missile operator mode in 2021. Until then we'll likely keep the 1 lock per rack limitation. I understand that this will change the combat experience for missile boat loadouts but please keep in mind that they still have a lot of missiles and locking a target doesn't take long.
2) The total 4 lock limitation: as you suggested the max amount of missile launches that your ship can handle will ultimately be driven from the ship avionics in later versions. In 3.11 however it will be a static number ... it is 4 atm but depending on how the ETF feedback looks we'll change it.
3) Attrition war: we hope that there are enough dynamic gameplay elements to avoid an attrition war. Timing for deploying CMs is a very important factor and there are quite a couple of factors when you play together with friends as your own CMs are also affecting missiles which are not meant for you. In fact you can even spoof your own missiles with your own CMs if you are not careful. That said during the ETF and PTU phases we'll be very focused on the feedback threads and try to get you the right amount of available CMs for each ship.
4) "Persistence of knowledge": It really just means that the missile does not really know at all times where the target is. All missiles have seeker heads with varying FOVs ... but they cannot look directly backwards anymore, so you have a higher chance that they can't reacquire you after the first pass.
5) Locking and relocking: In the long term we're trying to go into a direction where missiles are not just additional weapons during dogfights. We instead want them to take a proper slot in the combat space and have areas where they are useful and areas where they are not useful. So if you find a missile hard to employ in knife fighting distances then it is not necessarily a bad thing.
Ultimately please keep in mind that this announcement is really just for the 3.11 changes. Missile gameplay is not done with 3.11 and far bigger changes will appear with the missile operator mode in 2021. Hope that makes sense! :slightly_smiling_face:
- Yogi
PS: On the use of macros ... for obvious reasons of fairness I strongly advice against using any kind of macros in Star Citizen. Please see https://robertsspaceindustries.com/tos for details.
