You'll be hearing pretty much everything we have in 3.0 where the dynamic music system is concerned.  It's difficult to expand it in small stages; as you guessed, it's a bit more of a chunked, iterative release cadence.  Pedro's getting together the last pieces of what we're dubbing the 'outlaw' music logic set for 3.0, which is more reflective of those actions, areas, those who have a reputation that are a bit on the darker side of things.  Within that is coverage for the different kinds of base action that the player can engage in - such as FPS, EVA, flight - these individual sets can be pretty expansive in themselves.
After that's out the way we're going to look at the 'pioneer' music logic set which is, as you probably have guessed, the mirror of the outlaw logic set and will be more, let's say 'optimistic' and positive.  There must be balance in all things after all!
We're also going to up the number of area-specific music cues, to complement the big-ticket locations to differing extents.  These will tend to be heard upon initial discovery mostly, but reprised if one lingers in particular locations watching the world go by.  This is more cinematic musical 'spice' over and above the main music logic system so they're not the highest priority but they'll rewarding I think.
We haven't done too much iterating on individual tracks so much, at least not yet, but it's something we're able to do.  It's harder for content that's in the core music logic system, as we have to design how the transitions between different tracks work, and they're often split into layers to enable this - so it can represent a lot of re-do if tracks are changed in a way that then invalidates all that, so we tend to leave it alone and try to get it 'right' as much as possible first time if it's part of that core.
I really want to introduce more tracks outside of the logic system that are geared towards how players behave, that offer more colour to what ones does and where they go - but at the same time we want to avoid constant ever-present 'wallpapering' of the game with music, because that can so easily cheapen the currency of musical score.  We still have music for some main locational types to cover - e.g. moons - they still need something a little different and more sparse/ambient to reflect those landscapes.
So catering for the wider schemes is where we still are right now, but that will change and I'm looking forward to when we can, perhaps, hide certain musical cues, ones that may be absolutely unique to single points in the whole Verse; perhaps unique to a particular point in time, even - something you may only ever hear once, and once only.  Perhaps there will be a musical cue that is unique to a single player's experience, in which case it will be a cue that is written just for you.  Like finding a kind of intricate musical treasure that you hold for a moment before it's gone forever.
