Greetings!
We have removed part of the armistice zone outside of rest stop stations, excluding Port Olisar, and increased the security presence. From the patch notes:
The initial introduction of the relaxation of Green Zones will be removing the armistice zone around the exterior of Rest Stops and LEO Space Stations (Currently not in for Port Olisar). This update will allow players to fire ship weapons around Rest Stop exteriors (FPS weapons will still be locked) and comes with many updates to the law system and station defenses to help accommodate this.
Defenses of a few sizes and varieties have been added on and around the rest stops. These range from the small S4 turrets (now destructible) placed on landing pads, through S6 sentries seen in the Claim Jumpers missions, to ALL new S10 turrets on and around the perimeter of the stations. We have created a Security Response system which while still quite simplistic, adds the CrimeStats of all players in the area (we’re calling this internally the “heat”) and spawns security ships of increasing number and strength in response. The system responds quickly to increases in an area’s heat by spawning in new ships and despawning out any weaker ships they replace. The system responds slower to the killing of its own members (should the heat not be raised by this) and slower still to decreases in heat (to keep security patrolling for a time to ensure the threat doesn't return any time soon). We will develop this system further in the future to also take into account the type of ship the players are using. A new infraction has been created called the Armistice Violation. This is a felony and is given should players damage other ships or station defenses within the Armistice Zone. It does have a grace period and allowance in which the player is warned that further infractions will result in a felony. For it the first implementation, this new infraction will only remain active on the player’s criminal record of 1 day. Should the player enter the Armistice zone while having a CrimeStat or gain a CrimeStat whilst within the zone, they will be shown a warning telling them to leave immediately.
Please give this new setup a try and look for any blind spots for turrets or anything that isn't functioning as described above. For bugs, please use the issue council. Please leave any feedback on this first experiment in removing armistice below!
-Baior
Player Experience Team
