Greetings!
We have made a number of quality of life updates to get missiles into a more tolerable state while we wait for a more complete missile rework. These are meant to be interim fixes and we can make adjustments to number and duration of countermeasure effects. In addition, we have given missiles a minimum range that scales with size, giving missiles a defined use zone separate from guns. The changes put in, from the notes:
Missiles will react to all countermeasures again. Missiles will lose the lock during the locking process if the pilot does not keep the target in the locking cone. Missiles do not have perfect target knowledge anymore. Fixed missile selection keybinds. Added missile selection HUD widget. Players can select which missiles they launch by cycling, which is shown on the HUD (currently unbound, but bindable in keybinds menu). Players can only simultaneously lock missiles of the same type if equipped to multiple racks, with 4 max. We have added a minimum distance a player can be at when acquiring a lock on another target with missiles and torpedos. This starts at S1 - 1000m, S2 - 1500m, S3 - 2000m, and S4 - 2500m. Size 5+ torpedos use a different method and have a slower release, as these are Torpedos, and all are set to a minimum of 1000 meters. There is now a UI indication for in and out of lock range along with the HUD showing the ranges if the target is out of range. A lock will be lost if the locked target goes under minimum range.
For countermeasures, players can now either launch or deploy chaff or flare. A flare is now a projectile that emits a very strong signal to spoof missiles (works on all seekers). Chaff is now a limited jamming space which affects all kinds of sensor readouts (including the launching ship if contained in the field). Removed seeker specific countermeasure handling. Replaced countermeasure keybinds. Updated VFX for countermeasures to the new effects system. Added countermeasure ammo counter to HUD. Extended missile warning HUD widgets with shortest time to impact display for each incoming seeker type. Slightly rebalanced all countermeasures so big ships, like the Carrack, have less ammo per launcher but heavier countermeasure projectiles with longer effects.
Pop into pirate swarm or grab some friends and give this a test! Make sure all counter measures work as described and correctly counter all missile types. Let us know what you think below!
-Baior
Player Experience Team
