Hello everyone,
We have seen some questions pop up on how exactly you can earn the Vanduul Helmet released in Alpha 3.11, and we've made a number of changes, so we've created a handy FAQ that should help out. Read on!
Which ships can I use to unlock the helmet?
Eligible ships are the Esperia Glaive and any version of the Aegis Gladius.
What if I do not own these ships?
You’re in luck! We're running a Free Fly for existing backers for both the Vanduul Glaive and the base version of the Gladius all month long. Happy flying! :rocket:
Is there a contract I need to accept, or does it automatically start counting?
Nope! The challenge is already active for everyone, so get to PVP-ing.
Is there a way I can see how many kills I have left or have already gotten?
We don’t have a front-end tracker this time. We thought long and hard about whether hold this challenge without it, and ultimately made the decision to go ahead. It’s worth noting that we do indeed plan on a front-end tracker, and more in-game integration, in the future.
We’re rolling out rewards every Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, so rest assured that you’ll receive your reward on the first of those days following your challenge completion.
Edit: As a heads up, it can take up to 72 hours after your completion to receive your items, with exceptions for going a day or two longer depending on how backed up the queue is for distribution!
If I switch between different Gladius Variants or the Glaive, will the count continue?
Yes, we have updated this so that kills stack across vehicles.
Do all 50 kills have to be in the same play session?
Nope! You’ve got all month long to rack them up.
If I blow up a ship with multiple players on board, will they all count?
The way this challenge is setup, this likely would not count all deaths towards the count. It’s much more reliable to simply aim for unique kills.
Do the players have to be piloting the ship to count?
You must be piloting a Glaive or Gladius in order for the kill to count.
Do the players I attack have to be piloting a ship to count?
No. If you kill a player on foot while piloting one of the designated vehicles, it still counts.
If I attack an enemy vessel with friends together, who will receive the counted kill?
The pilot of the ship will receive credit for the kill.
If I group up with friends and we use multiple eligible ships at once, who will be rewarded with the kill?
Credit will only be given to the pilot who lands the killing blow.
Do kills achieved by ramming another ship or character count too?
It’s possible this counts, but it’s more reliable to use your weaponry.
Do I get credit for killing players who are in my party?
Yes, but only once as we’re tracking unique player kills.
How long will this event run?
All month long! Be sure to get your kills in before November 1, 2020, 23:59:59 UTC in order for them to count.
What if I kill a player by self-destructing my ship?
This will not count towards the total.
Do kills in Arena Commander Multiplayer matches also count?
They do not! This challenge is PU-specific.
Will an account reset also reset the kills I have achieved so far?
No, the account reset will have no effect on this.
Got any more questions for us? Drop them in the comments below!
