There's a lot to unpack here, and you may find my answers not entirely satisfying, but I thought I'd just add some comments (since in part this is more of a question for design)
Many of us are aware that, although you COULD turn on planetoid orbits  (planets around stanton, moons around planets) it creates a complication  where the planet will have moved by the time your quantum travel gets  you there. Makes perfect sense, really.
To be clear, the navigation but I mentioned regarding orbiting is only one of many that surface when orbits are turned on, so it is not the real blocker, really it is more that there are so many different systems impacted that we haven't yet prioritized it to the point to have a concerted effort across teams to address these various issues.
I think it would be reasonable if jumping from one planetoid to another landed you "behind", where that planetoid "used to be" prior in its orbit, if you're jumping from very far away.
The design direction at the moment is to always jump to where the planet is ending up, not where it was before you jump, in order to avoid needing to do any kind of "fix up" secondary jump. I think from a gameplay pattern perspective it could get very frustrating to have to make a second jump every time you wanted to go somewhere just to get more aligned with the target, especially when you would expect at the point in the future you should be able to route a path to where you will need to be to be within a reasonable distance of the planet, accounting for travel time.
Of course, this is assuming that object containers even CAN BE anything  other than a primitive solid... assuming that it can be a "ring" as  described. It's understandable if having a hole in it may not  necessarily be a thing that object containers can do...
One thing to note here is that object containers don't move, in fact that are completely static. They may be spawned in a zone that moves (like a planet) and their child contents may be moveable (like say some crates) but the object containers themselves are fixed in zone space, though they may move in world space if their zone moves.
