@RadiantFlux
There's a few major stumbling blocks that currently prevent us using this tech for completely arbitrary full quality secondary view-ports, and the biggest two are volumetric fog and gas clouds. These are hugely complex pieces of tech that take many milliseconds to compute per frame, and most of their work is view dependent so a secondary view would have to pay their cost again and this isn't practical (even if someones crazy high spec PC can cope, it's unfair to make game-play features non-viable on mid/low spec PCs). With fog there are some potential ways to combat this, the simplest being to not include fog in the secondary view-port! For many interiors this might be viable because the context is pre-known and can be budgeted for, and for close-up video-comms calls we don't really need fog. But something like a rear-view-mirror would need to work in all situations. This is why the idea of depth/IR/motion cameras is so appealing to me, you can benefit from the game-play features with a much lower performance impact.
There are also other areas of tech that are challenging such as procedural content generation (e.g. asteroids and planets). We could conceivably implement lower quality / more efficient fall-back tech for all of these, but time is not infinite, so we need to pick our battles and focus on the most crucial design features called out by Chris and Todd. Also I hope it goes without saying that while I may lead the graphics tech, I'm not a designer, so my design opinions are purely my own.
@Therion_X1
For sure I'd love a multi-monitor security camera setup, but I don't want to end up the situation where backers start quoting Jurassic Park to me when they see their frame-rate tank ("your scientists were so preoccupied with whether or not they could that they didn't stop to think if they should"). If design wanted us to investigate security cameras we'd need to consider what game-play mechanics we're aiming for, and what's the minimum tech required to achieve this. For example, it may be that a single screen with a tight view angle (like a bank ATM) might be enough, and our attention might be better focused on optimizing other parts of the game.
Cheers,
Ali Brown
Director of Graphics Engineering
