There two situations that I'm aware of where this message can occur. One of them is intended, and one is a bug. The bug is separate from the issue you're asking about.
"qued for login server" is similar to the functionality that exists in other games where players that are logging into the game will be put into a queue in order to help mitigate the strain that is being put on the database.  The following are generalizations for games, as we do not have queues in all of these places , but games typically have these kinds of queues in 3 places:
1. Logging into the launcher where the queue helps to mitigate strain placed on platform backend
2. Logging into a specific game on the launcher which helps to mitigate strain on the game database
3. Joining a game server ( usually due to population caps )
Out of these, we only have #2 implemented which is what causes the message you're seeing. The only time a player is supposed to see this message is when their account is not actively connected to a game server AND their account is put into the login queue. If someone is in a game server and they are seeing this message, that's a bug. How the bug occurs is that if an account loses connectivity to the backend services, but is still connected to a game server, the backend services will try to automatically recover the accounts connection. When this recovery occurs, it's showing the message telling the player they're in the login queue when it shouldn't be doing that. In an ideal scenario, accounts that are recovering their connection shouldn't even be put into the login queue.
So that's the answer for the "what is causing this" part of the question. The message is caused by the game client losing connectivity to the backend services and then trying to recover it.
What users can do to avoid it? Is it an issue we're aware of?
That's probably going to be a case by case basis. Currently the only issue I'm aware of with the connection recovery system is that it incorrectly places accounts that are recovering their connection into the login queue, as the last time that it was tested, we were able to successfully recover connectivity and continue playing the game. There could very well be an issue with the system that we didn't find and I wouldn't be surprised if that was the case. In the past when I was testing connectivity issues for other companies that I've worked for, it would work in some situations and fail in others. It's possible that the issue could be something of that nature but in that case, we'd need to have an idea of how to reproduce the problem so that we can investigate the cause.
