Hello everyone,
As we've mentioned in the past, having Delamar in the Stanton system would be a temporary thing. With our upcoming patch Alpha 3.12.1, we’re planning to remove the asteroid Delamar, and with it the landing zone Levski. Delamar, initially located in the Nyx system will be reintroduced into its intended location when the Nyx System comes online, which means that this is only a temporary removal. With Alpha 3.0, we moved Delamar/Levski to the Stanton System for testing purposes and have now come to a point where those tests have been concluded. With the removal, we will not only move Delamar to its rightful place lore-wise, but we’ll also free up memory and entities for upcoming additions to the ‘verse until we have server meshing online.
We know that the Asteroid and its Landing Zone have become the stomping ground for some players (most of them on the more questionable side of the law), so we want to kick-off one last celebration of Delamar/Levski before this change hits the live servers. For the next days, we’re hosting a screenshot contest to pay tribute to our parting asteroid. Join us for a chance to win some sweet rewards - head over to our contest thread on Spectrum for more info.
We’ve also put together a small FAQ to help answer some of those expected inquiries. Of course, this is only a handful of questions answered, so let us know what else you want to know in the thread, and we’ll answer what we can!
## FAQ
What will happen to items currently only available at Levski?
While we won’t be moving full shops like Teach’s Ship Shop, we’ll make sure that their inventory will find its way into other outlets so that you won’t miss out on any items currently only available at Levski exclusive shops.
What about missions that involve interactions on Delamar?
The team has gone through all missions that require a player to visit Delamar and amended those missions.
What about NPCs like Recco Battaglia that are residing on Delamar?
NPCs that made Delamar/Levski their homestead will be moving with the Asteroid into the Nyx system, which means we’ll see them again when the Nyx system comes online. o7
My Spawn Point is at Levski, what will happen when I respawn after the removal?
You will respawn at the default spawn location, which currently is Lorville.
When will this removal happen?
We’ve tested the removal on our internal builds and will roll out this change to the PTU soon. Our goal is to have this switch on the live servers with Alpha 3.12.1., pending the results of the PTU testing.
