Hey,
So, I wanted to jump in and give a quick update on ToW as I see a lot of misinformation about why it exists, who is working on it and what is its status.
Firstly when Sean T mentioned at CitCon that is was coming in 6 months – and I totally understand the confusion – he meant coming to Evo/PTU audience as we always planned to give it a longer runway as it has relatively tiny team compared to the wider S42/PU teams. And we did hit that date so we could get wider feedback from the players – albeit to Evo only.
Since then ToW has been playtested multiple times internally and has been a really useful tool for us to hone down on performance and stability. The work done here has directly benefitted the PU and S42. It in no way shape or form takes away resources from the other teams – and I know this as Pillar Director who oversees the entire Core Gameplay Pillar which this team sits. We have also used it as benchmark for testing out different weapons and it has directly contributed into making some of our newer weapons much tighter on launch – such as the LBCO Atzkav, P6LR, C54 and the newly released FS-9.
Secondly the team that is working on ToW has been directly working on addressing the feedback from our last test – which is mainly to make sure we are trying to replicate what a distilled down version of the PU would play like rather than a battlefield clone which serves no one. This is invaluable to me and the wider team as it helps us drive the core mixed arms experience. Obviously, I totally understand it’s not a direct 1:1 comparison but we are working towards making it feel more like the PU i.e. death is more meaningful, more strategic gunplay, you can go anywhere you want/no boundaries etc
Thirdly we will be bringing ToW shortly to Evo again. We have made strides towards giving it a more PU identity in how you spawn and play the game – but for us to even consider launching it to the masses we would need to improve the performance and net sync – and this means improving it for the PU – as ToW is the PU. It’s a planet and uses all the same assets. We benefit from the same improvements and suffer the same problems whether it’s the PU, S42 or ToW.
I know not everyone will agree with the above but at least this gives you an update of the current status :blush:
p.s. I see a lot of comments on the 6 months quote I made above. To be super clear - we 100% wanted to get it into everyone's hands in early 2020 but that was to the live audience (all backers) on PTU - not full release. We did not manage to do that as the EVO PT we held highlighted lots of performance issues and raised some gameplay issues so we went away and continued to work on it (see above). This is why we have an EVO PT in the first place and we will continue to do those tests until it meets the performance and gameplay criteria we are trying to achieve i.e. a full PU combat scenario at a decent frame rate that you guys can actually enjoy. We will still hit up EVO PT's to get feedback though in the interim.
