Going to shout out to IT & Build OPS. I'll try to keep this short but both teams did huge improvements through out the years and I cannot stop giving them enough appreciation.
I started working for CIG at the end of 2013. We had two studios, Austin and LA. Austin was the big dev power house and LA just had a small dev crew with Chris Roberts.
Working in games you usually have 2 main type of builds. Dev builds & production builds. Dev builds can be built on production builds or manually generated. They are essentially the builds devs use to work on the game and usually no two are like - due to the different data/code. So it makes testing MP a bit hard if everyone is using dev builds. Production builds are the packaged up game that should run without any configs or setup - builds you give to QA, presentations, and public. These builds are designed to just run and allow everyone to share the same experience with the current state of the game - broken or not. Its the best way to measure the state of the game and features.
We could generate dev builds among ourselves pretty quickly for people. We had all our data in P4 that we can pull, and any programmer ( including myself ) could generate the binaries for a sub-set of people. It was pretty simple process but there was a lot of data to pass around. For the small dev team in LA, it was not perfect but we got the job done.
However, to get production builds it was whole another process. We had almost daily builds that Austin would manually create, then we ( LA ) would have to copy over from Austin. Lets just say to get builds was a long process.  It also started to get extra complicated when we started to branch off the release builds.
We needed a build system and distribution system which could handle large data, compile the game, package everything up, and some how share it across the teams in different studios.
IT & Dev OPS made huge improvements through out the years. Nowadays we can limit what we pull from p4 ( only get what you need to replace in the build or work live on ) so its super quick. Our backend system can support generating many production builds at a time from different streams ( release, game-dev, feature stream, etc ), and our infrastructure allows us to grab hold of those builds quickly and safely. We also use a similar update system as the public patcher to download delta builds - only download the difference and now the entire build. So both the backers and dev team share from the improved workflow.
