Hi @greyhart,
We answered your question in the first installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/18075-Loremakers-Community-Questions). Copying the response in below so it will also live in this thread. Thanks for the question and interest in how the Star Citizen universe comes together!
Question: I just watched a video critique of Star Citizen lore and I have to agree with most of what he says. For example, the technology of the UEE doesn’t seem advanced enough and there is no real explanation as to why. Also, the UEE as described would never work. Instead of a Judicial Branch which determines if the laws are fair and fairly applied, the UEE has a police force that seems to be judge, jury and executioner (or at least jailer).
Additionally, what little we’ve been told of the Vanduul doesn’t make sense. If the Vanduul are tribal or clannish in nature, they are going to have Gods, or some Higher Being that they honor, yet we have been told they do not. There needs to be actual reasons behind what they do, not just because they are "irredeemable."
It's all well and good to write the “Rule of Cool” for current events, but who is tasked with creating the history and verifying that it has real continuity?
Answer: This is a tricky question to try and answer but will give it a shot. Rather than going point by point, we wanted to have a higher level conversation about the universe and the choices made in its construction.
Obviously when creating any fictional universe, you need to make choices to build an environment that complements the story you want to tell. Since the beginning of Star Citizen, there wasn't ever really a goal to try and realistically project exactly where Humanity would be in 900 years. During the initial planning, there was a lot of discussion of what the 30th century would look like and feel like for the game that we were aiming to make. So when sitting down to look at the universe, there were stylistic choices made from the get-go that led to the most tactile gameplay. These creative choices were based on Chris' artistic taste and his vision for the game universe, so we kinda started from there and worked our way backwards, creating Time Capsules (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link?channel=&series=time-capsule&type=&text=&sort=publish_old), to bridge the gap between present day and then to hit the target.
For example, Chris wanted to avoid having AI dominate the landscape. He wanted players to be in the pilot seat and in control of the action. Now, is it unlikely that AI wouldn't be piloting ships at this point in the 'real' timeline? Probably, but the game would have a very different tone and feel if all the players could simply entrust their fleet to their AI (that can pilot thousands of times better than they ever could) than having to do it themselves. That's why we littered the history with all those tragedies involving AI (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/12977-News-Update-WILL-WE-NEVER-LEARN), so Humanity would stop pursuing it as a thing (even though they keep trying). Similarly, with advancements in AI targeting computers, it is conceivable to imagine a future (like many sci-fi authors have) where battles would probably take place across hundreds of thousands of kilometers as the combat systems would be able to instantaneously calculate trajectories over those vast distances. However, because Humanity has eschewed AI development, it allowed us to have that desired Wing Commander vibe of pitting your skills against your opponent in a tangling dogfight rather than sniping across a solar system.
Again, this isn't to say that the criticisms aren't fair. If there are facets of the universe that don’t feel satisfactorily explained, we definitely welcome requests for further clarity or explanations into why the things are the way they are. Nine hundred years is a lot of history to fill in and since the bulk of this stuff won’t affect the day-to-day life of a player in the Star Citizen universe, it does tend to take a back seat when stacked against the other tasks that we have going on, but that shouldn’t stop anyone from bringing them up to discuss.
To address a couple of the points you outlined, for clarity, the Judicial branch of the government includes a full court system under the Office of Imperial Justice. The Advocacy are simply the Imperial-level police force. You just don't get much of a view of the courts from a player perspective.
As for the Vanduul, it's not quite clear why a clan structure predisposes them to religion, but otherwise yes, that is correct, you have very little information about how the Vanduul operate, but that doesn't mean that they are lacking complexity. One of the strange hurdles that we've been dealing with is the fact that we're building this universe in tandem with the game, so, as backers, you’re getting access to the written lore sooner than you get to experience it. For that reason, we don't want to just tell you everything. We want to make sure there are things to discover in the universe when you get in there.
