Hi @Bacchus,
We answered your question in the first installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/18075-Loremakers-Community-Questions). Copying the response in below so it will also live in this thread. This was a fun one. Thanks for asking it!
Question: With the Messer having been in power for so long, I'd assume there are many, many descendants that exist in the 'verse. Where did the remaining Messer's run to when the regime fell? Do their descendants still feel the need to hide from the public at this point? If so, how does the modern UEE treat them?
Answer: This is a really interesting topic and one ripe with Narrative potential. Here's how we've broached the topic so far in lore. First, there's the mystery around what happened to Fiona Messer (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/galactapedia/article/R56nLjJog7-fiona-messer). She disappeared in 2792 during the anti-Messer revolution that killed her older brother Imperator Linton Messer XI and deposed her family's regime. No one knows where she went or what happened to her, but the mystery surrounding her fate still fascinates the modern UEE, as is evident in the making of a 2947 spectrum vid Sparrow (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/15754-Something-Every-Tuesday-Finding-Fiona) that imagined what might have happened to her after the revolution.
Second, during the 2950 Imperator Primary, where anyone can announce themselves as a candidate by submitting a vid pitching their vision for the Empire, one candidate claimed to be a direct descendant of Ivar Messer. The hosts of Spectrum Spectator (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/17434-Spectrum-Spectator-Imperator-Primary) found the candidate's ideas to be odious and believed the person wasn't an actual descendant of the Messers, only someone desperate enough to get facial reconstruction surgery to look like Ivar Messer. Whether the candidate was truly a Messer descendant was never conclusively proven, but either way, he didn't get enough support to make the final ten candidates. So the current political climate meant someone felt comfortable enough to campaign as a Messer but struggled to gain widespread support.
Other Messer family members outside of the direct line were either swept up and imprisoned during the anti-Messer revolution or went into hiding. A number of them probably changed their name and obscured their family connections to survive. So, there's definitely numerous Messer descendants still running around the UEE. How this plays out in lore will be a fun thing to keep exploring going forward.
