Happy Wednesday, everyone!
Every two weeks, we accompany the Roadmap update with a brief explanatory note to give you insight into the decision-making that led to any changes. This is part of an effort to make our communications more transparent, more specific, and more insightful for all of you who help to make Star Citizen and Squadron 42 possible.
With that said, let’s go ahead and dive into this week’s Roadmap Roundup!
-CIG Community Team
## Progress Tracker
The following deliverables have been added to the Progress Tracker:
AI – Off Duty Activities – Sleeping
The sleeping behavior is a segment of our new civilian behavior system, controlling how the AI sleeps, relaxes, and socializes in bed. We will support single beds, bunk beds and beds with privacy shutters in this first iteration.
AI – Off Duty Activities – Hygiene
The hygiene behavior is a segment of our new civilian behavior system, making the AI feel more realistic by scheduling toilet breaks, sometimes washing hands, and increasing hygiene values by taking daily showers.
Boreal Stalker
Implementing the boreal stalker creature into the game. Created by microTech genetic engineers to fill the apex predator niche wthin their planet’s ecosystem, the boreal stalker roams its tundras searching for prey.
Third Person Camera V2
Adding improved follow behavior to the third-person camera, with increased support for ground vehicles. The camera will also fully disconnect during accidents for more cinematic crashes.
——
Security Service
This deliverable has been renamed to NPC Tracker Service and is otherwise in the same location on the Progress Tracker.
Nyx System, Planet, and Mission Setup
Due to work being done on each planet of the Nyx system simultaneously, it is currently tricky to accurately display these tasks on the Progress Tracker. Therefore we’ve combined all deliverables into one, similar to how we represent the Pyro System.
The following deliverables have been removed temporarily from the Progress Tracker until planning meetings are finished later this month, determining where they will land on the schedule.
- Options Screen Rework
- RSI Polaris
- Anvil F8 Lightning
- F7A Mk1 Gold Standard
- F7A Mk2 Gold Standard
That's all for this week!
