1 - FPS Autowalk: That's not for our team (aka VET) but I'll poke the actor team about it.
2 - IFCS decoupled cruise: In its current form isn't possible but we recently had a few related ideas for more advanced flight controls that would cover this. But it's too early to talk about that yet.
3 - IFCS gravity compensation: Adding a toggle should be possible but it really needs to account for all edge cases.
4 - IFCS acceleration limiter not rotation: The acceleration limiter is really acting on the max thrust output of the thruster which is why it acts on rotation. We were thinking about having it act only on linear output but we didn't have time to try it out yet. It's not that easy as we'd need to reimplement how it works. But it's possible.
5 - VTOL: I can't speak with authority on that, it's more a ship content issue.
6 - Interaction mode: These are all good ideas and I agree that we have our issues with the interaction mode and the interaction especially in cockpits is not really what we'd like it to be. We have a few ideas ourselves which we wanna try out but improving IM requires a substantial investment of prototyping time which we currently can't afford. :disappointed: Not saying it won't happen but within VET we can't really focus on it atm.
As a side note: a somewhat easier way to use IM at this time is to use head tracking as it does not allow camera movement based on mouse movement. You still have the zooming problem but quickly glancing around clicking MFDs is a lot easier this way. So if you have a head tracker I'd encourage you to try it out.
7 - Acceleration limiter for ground vehicles: We'd love to add that but the issue here is that the ground vehicles won't have a fully working UI for a while. And without UI we're not keen on adding a feature that might completely stop your vehicle without the player knowing why that happens. We've been down the rabbit hole before of releasing features with insufficient UI and it causes more issues than anything else. So once we have sorted out driver UI we will definitely add an acceleration limiter for more gradual control. Until that happens though the only way to properly control the acceleration is via an analog controller, e.g. a left handed Joystick, pedals or similar.
