Invictus Launch Week is almost here, and to help everyone get the most from the event, we want to answer the most pressing questions.
Read on for everything you need to know about Invictus, including where to go and how to participate in the upcoming Free Fly event.
What exactly is Invictus Launch Week?
Invictus Launch Week, or short ILW, is an event held the last week of May that marks the beginning of the new recruiting year and graduation of the latest class of officers and pilots of the United Empire of EarthNavy (UEEN). Though a time to honor those in the Navy and other armed forces for their tireless service to the UEE, aerospace and defense manufacturers across the galaxy also take the opportunity to showcase their vehicles designed for (or influenced by) the military. It provides everyone with the opportunity to see some of Star Citizen's biggest, best, and most iconic ships up close as different manufacturers take over the expo center halls. Plus, almost everything on display is available to test fly for free!
When is Invictus Launch Week taking place?
Starting on May 21 through June 1, different ship manufacturers take over the halls for 48 hours.
What time does the event start?
Invictus Launch Week starts on May 21 at 4pm UTC (9am Pacific). The Free Fly will commence a day later on May 22. This gives us time to monitor organic traffic during the first day, before opening up the flood gates to those looking to participate in the Free Fly.
When does the Free Fly start?
For new players specifically, the Free Fly will start May 22 and end on June 3.
Where does the Invictus Launch Week take place? Where do I have to go?
The aerospace and defense manufacturers showcase their vehicles at the Tobin Expo Center, New Babbage, microTech. You can also get a rare firsthand glimpse at the Navy's most fearsome destroyers, corvettes, and carriers as they make their way through Stanton and tour an in-service Javelin destroyer, the UEES War Hammer.
How do I get to the Tobin Expo Center?
First, you need to head to the planet microTech. If this is your first visit to the Stanton System, you can directly spawn at the New Babbage Aspire Grand. If you're already a citizen of the 'verse, jump to microTech, spline jump to New Babbage, then land at the Interstellar Spaceport. From there, take the Metro transit system and get off at the Tobin Expo Center.
How do I get to the Javelin tour?
During Invictus Launch Week, you can tour an in-service Javelin destroyer, the UEES War Hammer. As soon as you step onboard, you’ll feel the history of this iconic behemoth! The Javelin moves through Stanton, so citizens around the system will get their chance to enjoy the tour. Head to Everus Harbor above Hurston, Baijini Point above ArcCorp, and Port Tressler above microTech to join. To find out its current position, please see the info panels in one of the landing zones:
Where can I see the UEE fleet?
The Navy's most fearsome destroyers, corvettes, and carriers will make their way through Stanton in a fleet that's bigger and better than ever before. To find out their current position, please see the info panels in one of the landing zones:
I neither have a Star Citizen Game Package nor a spacecraft. How can I travel to microTech and enjoy the Free Fly?
No worries, we got you covered! Invictus Launch Week is the ultimate time to test Star Citizen and the fancy military ships for free - for everyone! We provide every account with an Avenger Titan starter ship as a free loaner to get you to the event and back!
How do I rent a ship?
In the expo center halls, you'll find ships on display from different manufacturers throughout the event. If you see something, you'd like to test fly, walk up to it and press and hold the F key to open the inner thought menu. The ship will become highlighted, then left-click on the word RENT. Your mobiGlass will open. Then, confirm the rental by clicking RENT in the lower-right corner.
You can then head to the Space Port or any other ASOP terminal throughout the 'verse. The rented ship will be available for 48 hours.
How long can ships be rented?
You can rent ships as long as they are on display. All manufacturers exhibit their ships for 48 hours. Check the ILW 2951 Schedule to see which ships can be viewed and rented on which days. Once you have rented a ship or vehicle, it will be available for 48 hours.
How many ships can be rented?
You can rent every flyable or drivable vehicle exhibited at Invictus Launch Week. Each ship or vehicle can be rented once.
Which ships exactly will be free to rent during the different manufacturer days?
Check the ILW 2951 Schedule to see which ships can be viewed and rented on which days. During the last 4 days of Invictus Launch Week, all ships will become rentable via the rental kiosks in the Drake hall.
Do I need a copy of Star Citizen to enjoy Invictus Launch Week?
No. For the duration of the event, anyone can play Star Citizen for free. All you need to do is visit the Fly Now page and follow the instructions.
Can I invite a friend?
Of course! All they need to do is visit the Fly Now page, create an account, and jump into the game. Don't forget, using your referral code during account creation grants them an additional 5,000 UEC. And if they decide to stay after the Free Fly, you'll earn a referral point.
I am a new player. Where do I get more info?
There are different options that will help prepare new players for their life among the stars.
The Welcome Hub presents various tutorials to help you get off on the right foot navigating the 'verse. Star Citizen veterans act as informal guides for an ever-growing number of new players in the Guide System. The Knowledge Base answers the most frequent questions in articles that cover everything from how to create an account to character equipment.
Will there be Invictus Launch Week specific ship paints?
During Invictus Launch Week, we will have paints on offer centred around a military theme, with a special ILW paint commemorating the UEE Fleet. These blue & gold paints are specific to Invictus Launch Week and only available during the event.
Will there be Warbond CCUs available?
Yes. Check back each day throughout the event to see what's available. Each Warbond CCU will only be available for a 24-hour period.
Will there be quantity stock-limited ships?
Yes! Each stock-limited ship is limited to 1 per account and will be available in three waves to cover as many global time zones as possible. Please note that depending on your time zone, Wave 2 and 3 may occur the next calendar day.
- Wave 1: 4pm UTC (9am Pacific)
- Wave 2: 12am UTC (5pm Pacific)
- Wave 3: 8am UTC (1am Pacific)
- ILW Day 1 - May 21: RSI Constellation Phoenix
- ILW Day 3 - May 23: Aegis Idris-P, Aegis Idris Aftermarket Kit, and Aegis Javelin
- ILW Day 9 - May 29: Drake Kraken, Drake Kraken Privateer, Drake Kraken Aftermarket Kit
You'll notice Polaris is not listed here. Yes, it is no longer a stock limited ship.
Do you have additional questions? Let us know, and we will do our best to answer them.
