There are two manual gimbal modes in the game. One slaves it to the rotation input of your vehicles (which what you see when you control your ship rotation with the mouse), the other one slaves it to the look direction. The "rotation" option when you use the mouse is what we consider VJoy controls (short for virtual joystick that "fakes" joystick inputs based on you move the mouse around in a theoretical circle). You can press LALT-G to switch between those. What happens here is that the aiming crosshair will either slave to where your rotation inputs point towards or it will slave it where you look.
Spaceships and ground vehicles do have very different control setups by default but in the background use the same tech to slave the gimbals. The default control scheme on ground vehicles is that you use WASD to rotate and move your vehicle but you use the mouse to look around in your cockpit. That's why by default in driver seats the gimbals will just follow where the driver looks ... it's the obvious and easy accessable option. If you'd pressed LALT-G you would see that the gimbal crosshair would instead follow where the steering points to ... so pressing A and D will make the gimbal crosshair move. If you want a proper "ship" like setup, you'd need to set up the yaw and pitch axes of ground vehicles to use the x and y axis of the mouse. However that is not really a good option for ground vehicles as it is more restricting than anything else. Long term we wanna have a couple of more "bespoke" setups for ground vehicle gimbal modes (e.g. auto gimbal makes little to nose sense) but we didn't get around to do that yet.
I think for head tracking users specifically the best option would be to use the look direction slaving and press RALT-G when needed. That will "freeze" the gimbals in place and they stop following the head. Ofc you can still press G to simply switch the gimbal modes between Locked, Auto and Manual ... though the vehicles lack a proper HUD yet so it is really hard to tell what's going on at times. :disappointed:
So pretty much all of the issues are known to use (and we're not happy with it yet) and there is work planned to fix that eventually.
