Hi @HannahB888,
We answered your question in the this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/18209-Loremakers-Community-Questions). Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: Seems weird having a re-creation of a 400-year-old alien ship as one of the most powerful, affordable, and common ships in the game from arguably one of the most expensive and high-end manufacturers.
Answer: From a narrative perspective, Esperia (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/16959-Portfolio-Esperia) is definitely still a high-end manufacturer. They began as a small, niche company that collected and archived old ship blueprints until the company transformed in 2877 when Esperia's founders, brothers Jovi and Theo Ingstrom, successfully repaired a broken Glaive. The UEE Navy (UEEN) quickly hired them as consultants to build and repair Vanduul ships to be used in training exercises. When original Tevarin ships models were discovered in Kabal, Esperia was given special access to them, leading to the release of the Prowler and eventually the Talon. So, though they may make specialized ships, the company is definitely big enough and popular enough to produce the large number of replicas seen flying around the empire. As for the price point, while they consider their pieces “functional collectables,” the brothers have always wanted to make history as accessible to as many people as possible when the manufacturing allows for it.
Exactly how prominent Esperia ships will be in-game is still to be seen. Part of it depends on how popular their ships are with players, which is something we can't predict. It's great if you're seeing a lot of Esperia ships in-game because it means players are attracted to their unique design and function. The variety of ships and frequency with which you see them around the verse will always be in flux, but the goal is to create a diverse group of ships so players aren't encountering the same few over and over again. Esperia's fleet of unique ships definitely helps diversify the field. The hope is to eventually be able to further diversify the ships you will encounter as we continue to expand the presence of NPCs in the universe and the ships they will fly.
