Hi @muddfukka,
We answered your question in the this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/18209-Loremakers-Community-Questions). Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: Aopoa gave the Qhuire Khartu the "al" designation to distinguish the Human export version of the ship. Why wasn't "al" also used for the San'tok.yāi?
Answer: This is an interesting question because it gives insight into how the Xi'an language was developed. The Khartu was named prior to the development of the Xi'an language and the "al" added to make a clear distinction between the Human and Xi'an variants. When the language was developed, we shared everything established in lore with Britton Watkins, who developed the language and produced the extensive Xi'an Language Overview (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/media/9f3kqrtzkslfmr/source/Xian-Language-Overview-V6.pdf). Check out page 117 and you'll see that "al" can be written and used in several ways including "outgoing; external; projecting externally; depart; exit; export."  So "al" can mean "export" but is also used in a lot of different ways. One of the team’s personal favorites being "āl" with the macron over the "a" denoting a slightly different pronunciation and meaning "subconscious meditation; fuge meditation; reverie." A really wonderful way to tie the word to the Xi'an tradition of deep meditation taking them out of space and time.
Now, the in-lore reason behind the ship being named the San'tok.yāi instead of the San'tok.yāi-al is pretty simple. That's how Aopoa's marketing team decided to sell it to the UEE. Having now spent years exporting ships to the UEE market, Aopoa seems content to move away from using "al" on their export models, as neither the Nox or the Nox Kue carry the designation either. This could be a sign that the Xi'an and their language are becoming more entrenched in UEE life, or that they simply wanted the literal translation of San'tok.yāi (ship that creates genuine fear) to stand on its own.
