Hi @CordellAvant,
We answered your question in the this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/18209-Loremakers-Community-Questions). Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: How'd Lorville get its name?
Answer: Good question. First, the name Lorville was picked because we thought it sounded cool while also evoking the idea of company towns that inspired the location. Once we had chosen something that captured the feel we were after, we went ahead and explored why Hurston Dynamics would have made the same choice. Here is the never before seen history of how the city got its name:
In 2865, Hurston Dynamics (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/13152-Portfolio-Hurston-Dynamics) purchased the planet that would come to bear its name, and thoroughly scanned it to locate the most resource rich sectors. Areas with little resource value were repurposed for factories, research centers, and weapon testing, or in the case of one particular large swath of land, filled with cheap structures to house on-world workers. Hurston assigned this area the three letter designation LOR for "Local Occupational Residency" and required all on-world workers to live there. No one knows who first called the location LOR-ville but the term quickly became popular among workers, many of whom were locked into long term work contracts and knew they wouldn't be leaving it anytime soon.
By 2877, the Hurston family realized their vision of building large, lush estates for members of the family across the planet would significantly reduce their ability to extract resources, pollute, and/or test weapons on the land around it. Instead, the family decided to make the LOR both the business and residential center for the entire planet, and construction on the Central Tower began. By then the name Lorville was so ubiquitous that company records even used it, and as far as is known, no real consideration was given to changing it.
* Answer updated to remove reference to Hurston terraforming Stanton I. The UEE terraformed the planet.
