Hi @Kal-Nor,
We answered your question in the this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/18209-Loremakers-Community-Questions). Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: Were the perpetrators ever caught or is there still an open bounty out there?
Answer: Sorry bounty hunters, but there's no open bounty related to the attempted assassination of Imperator Costigan. The Advocacy identified Maurice Vano, who was killed fleeing the scene, as the sole attacker and considers the case closed. Still, some find it hard to believe that Vano acted alone, particularly in circumventing strict security measures, and wonder if accomplices might still be out there.
For a quick recap, news first broke during an Empire Report (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/15941-Empire-Report-HuXa-Protests) that revealed shots were fired at Imperator Costigan during the Banking Federation Summit in New York City. Imperator Costigan escaped unharmed, but one member of his security detail, the elite 1st Marine Combat Battalion, was killed and several Marines and civilians injured in the crossfire. Two weeks later the Advocacy held a press conference where they identified Maurice Vano as the assailant. They didn't reveal much past Vano's name and that his system contained a significant amount of e’tâm, a Xi'an drug known to produce intense and dangerous side effects in Humans. A New United (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/15962-New-United-Assassination-Investigation) investigation into Vano revealed him to be a former Navy Starman turned mercenary with ties to several xenophobic organizations. The assassination attempt occurred amidst debate around the Human-Xi'an Trade Initiative (HuXa) leading some to speculate that Imperator Costigan's support for HuXa motivated Vano to attack.
Since the press conference, the Advocacy has remained tight-lipped about the incident and investigation. This silence has only fed conspiracy theories, several which firebrand Parker Terrell floated on an episode of Plain Truth (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/16028-Plain-Truth-Shadow-State). Could Tevarin separatist or a Xi'an crime syndicate have financed and helped plan the attack? Parker asked the question but doesn't seem too interested in answering it himself. Instead he railed against the Advocacy for using the incident as cover to access financial records and files of businesses or groups that had even a passing association with Vano.
All that said, the incident is considered closed by the Advocacy, but there's a chance unnamed co-conspirators might be out there. And if their ultimate motivations truly were against the further opening of trade between the UEE and Xi'an Empires, then they're probably even more displeased with current Imperator Addison, who wants to strengthen ties between the two empires even more.
