Greetings,
We would love to hear your thoughts and impression of Missile Operator Mode. This new mode is quite the change, so be sure test thoroughly and read through how it works (from the patch notes):
Missile Operator Mode is a new operator mode that will be used to separate the gun and missile/torpedo gameplay within ships. Using this mode will give pilots more control over what missiles/torpedoes are fired, and give them more character and purpose in combat. They should no longer be viewed as ‘just another weapon’, but have a more distinct and important role in the overall flow.
Accessing the Operator Mode: Access to the operator mode is given by a keybind (default middle mouse button), on a toggle (toggling out of the mode will enter the default mode for the seat). Upon accessing the mode, players will lose control of any other ship weapons and gain control of the missile systems. All other weapons will return to neutral gimbal positions, stop tracking, etc, while the missile weapon systems will deploy and the ship will emit increased signals
Selecting Ordnance: Players will only be able to lock and fire one kind of missile class at a time (e.g. Ignite/Rattler/Arrester, not just size or tracking type). In addition, each missile rack will only be able to stock one model of missile (pre-existing split loadouts will still 'work' technically but are not intended to be supported so there may be UI issues). On entering the mode, one type of missile will be automatically selected, ordered by class for consistency across ships and play sessions. Players can then cycle forward and back over these missile types, with the currently selected missile prominent on the HUD, and the previous and next class of missiles also visible so the player knows what they will cycle to next. Players can set how many missiles they wish to fire in a burst (G and LAlt+G by default up to a maximum value). They must then wait for each missile to arm before it can be fired.
Locking a Target: If a player is in Missile Operator Mode and has a Locked combat target, the missile will automatically begin locking onto the target. The locking process is no longer binary - after a minimum level of lock to acquire the target, the longer you lock for, the ‘better’ the lock becomes, and the harder the missile will become to spoof. This is achieved with a simple multiplier of the targets signal (e.g. a target may have a real signal of 1000, and at full lock the signal amplification may be x5, so the missile would perceive a signal of 5000 instead). This means that the missile requires other contacts to have a significantly larger signal than the original to be distracted by them. A target must be fully resolved (i.e. its signal must be the largest in the detection radius) before a missile will track it, meaning that enemy targets can try and outplay another ship locking a missile to them by releasing countermeasures or flying close to larger targets before the missile is even launched. If the missile's target isn’t fully resolved before launch, it will simply dumbfire forward.
Firing Ordnance: At any point after the first missile has been armed, the player can initiate the launch procedure, which will fire any currently armed missiles and begin a cooldown until they can next begin arming missiles. If the player begins firing missiles without a lock, the missiles will be dumb-fired. This can be used for ground targets, bombing runs, emergency situations, or to avoid enemy ships being notified about incoming missiles/combat locks. If more than one rack has the same type of missile, then missiles will be expended from the racks in a staggered rotation (e.g. if three racks each have 8 Ignite missiles on, and the player chooses to fire 8 Ignite missiles, the first two racks will each fire 3 missiles and the third will fire 2, in ABC rotation).
Give this new mode a test in the PU and AC. Let us know what you think below and, as always, thanks for taking the time.
-Baior
Player Experience Team
