Okay, I see how my statement might have upset a few peeps, so let me try to correct this a bit to make the context clear:
My whole point was that looking at pure numbers does not really tell you the whole story about the combat performance of a ship. To stay for a sec with a car analogy ... let's assume you have two cars, one hits 100 mph in 5 seconds, the other one in 4.8 ... you could easily say that car 2 is the better choice. But in reality that little difference on that stat can easily be offset by factors that may not visible in typical sales numbers, e.g. how much vibration you feel during driving or how it handles in tight curves.
There is a related story in the old Falcon 4 manual from F-16 pilot Pete Bonanni where he describes how WW2 ace Adolf Galland was interviewed about the difference between the Fw 190 and Bf 109, the two main fighters in the German Luftwaffe back then. The interviewer told him that he considered the Fw 190 as the better fighter. Galland responded saying that judging it purely by the numbers that might be right, but for him the Bf 109 was far superior. That was because the Fw 190 showed a certain unpleasant handling character in some flight envelopes whereas the Bf 109 "fit like a glove" and allowed its pilots to bring it to peak performance much easier ... it was just easier to fly so the pilots could focus more on their actual tasks and less on handling the plane correctly.
That is pretty much the point I was going for but which I frankly did not explain well. Star Citizen is a very physical driven game so numbers from the game data do not tell the complete story about how these ships perform. Think about things like the pure size visible aspect sizes, handling differences due to thruster layouts, item placements, ship part structures, cockpit visibility, etc. All these factors have an impact on your combat performance but are not easily converted into actual usable ship data numbers.
This does NOT mean that we purposefully are going to hide general performance information on ships on items. We did not say that and that was never the plan. Of course we will show that stuff, like any car vendor who will put out stats you have places to buy ships in the verse and they show you the necessary data to help you with your purchase. I hope that clears up what I mentioned in the SCL.
PS: I am indeed no car lover but I do love spaceships (and planes) very much! :hornet:
