So given the virtualization of the environment, there's a couple of different layers to this, as potential bottlenecks exist when requisitioning servers from a cloud provider and having the game server load the information that it needs to be able to host the Persistent Universe ( which currently only contains Stanton ).
Question 1: We can't answer the exact amount of time because that is going to change. Server meshing will inherently change the way that the game server loads things so we wouldn't be able to safely use today's performance numbers to guess at how quickly a re-connection would occur.
Question 2: I'm not really qualified to answer as it out of my area of expertise.
Question 3: Within reason, we do have game servers available in advance because if we didn't, players would frequently run into "server full" errors while waiting for the next one to start. There's two layers to this. There's the virtual machine that is provisioned from a cloud provider to host the game, and then there is the game server that is running on the virtual machine. So in a normal scenario when one game server crashes, there should be another game server that is already ready to host the needed information. In an absolutely worst case scenario where we run out of virtual machines to host game servers on (incredibly unlikely), the game server that crashed would get restarted by the Linux operating system and then load the information that it needs to run the game. The amount of time that is going to take will change depending on which environment ( pub/live, ptu, qa ) it happens on because if there's additional debug info enabled, crashing can take longer.
Question 4: Not totally black and white. There are some kinds of stability issues that require us to have more game servers and some that don't. If it's a clean crash where it breaks, crashes, and restarts then additional servers typically aren't needed. However if a stability issue causes a game server to get stuck in a bad state ( such as crashing all the game clients that connect to it ) where it doesn't immediately die and recover, additional servers are good to have around so that the broken ones can be debugged and restarted as needed.
