Hi @terranearth -
We answered your question in the this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/18297-Loremakers-Community-Questions). Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: The Fair Chance Act (FCA) was adopted in 2795 to protect planets with developing life. The Stanton system Galactic Guide states that Hurston's "indigenous life (was) killed by mining and manufacturing processes." Since the intention is to include some indigenous alien life forms on planets in the system (stormwal, etc.), I have a few questions.
What is the current canonical implication of the FCA? Why did the UEE sell the system to corporations, given the presence of complex indigenous life forms like the stormwal? Was due process under the FCA performed when the Stanton system was terraformed? How did the general public react to the despoiling of Hurston's indigenous ecosystem?
Answer: Let’s tackle the canonical implications of the Fair Chance Act (FCA) [https://robertsspaceindustries.com/galactapedia/article/RXlXmnaYGP-fair-chance-act] first. The law created a new type of system classification known as developing (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/galactapedia/article/V7gMqAvgv2-developing-system), which is defined as containing "sentient or potentially sentient life." The FCA empowers the UEE to act as stewards and protectors of these developing species so they can continue their evolution without our interference. Terraforming and mining are strictly prohibited on worlds with developing life, but the systems aren't on complete lockdown. For instance, Kellog system (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/16359-Galactic-Guide-Kellog-System) contains both the developing orm species on Xis (Kellog II) and some of UEE's most hardened criminals locked up on the prison planet QuarterDeck (Kellog VI). The UEE knows it can't stop people from entering these developing systems. So they police the protected planets and punish anyone caught violating the FCA.
Regarding Stanton, upon its discovery in 2851 the system would've been subjected to the Fair Chance Act prior to any development occurring. The UEE officially controlled the system until 2865 before selling them to the mega-corps. During those 14 years, the UEE government did minimal terraforming to Stanton I (Hurston), III (ArcCorp), and IV (microTech). That indicates none of the indigenous life on the planets were deemed "sentient or potentially sentient life" under the FCA. Meanwhile, the stormwals on Stanton II (Crusader) were classified as animal intelligence and didn’t qualify for protection under the FCA. Since none of the planets in Stanton fell under the FCA, the mega-corps that purchased them could do as they please and Hurston took full advantage of the situation.
As far as the general public, some definitely disagreed with the UEE handling of the situation in Stanton, and saw the inherent flaws in the law, like the precise definition of "sentient or potentially sentient life."  While the intention of the law might be righteous, its execution is still subject to the whims of people with a wide variety of interests and allegiances. Meanwhile, there are others who believe the UEE is too restrictive in some developing systems. Failed Imperator candidate Paul LeSalle campaigned specifically on loosening the FCA to allow for more resource extraction from protected planets. It's this push and pull around the law that we find interesting and full of narrative potential, and it will be fascinating to see how much players respect the FCA when a developing world and its indigenous species appear in-game.
