Hi @raull_127 -
We answered your question in the this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/18297-Loremakers-Community-Questions). Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: There is a lot unknown about the cause of the "Definitive" AI ban. Besides the widespread public rejection, what other reasons might there be that are not discussed? Did alien civilizations have something to do with it? Was it a Messer mandate that ended up becoming part of human culture and political structure? Perhaps there are more disturbing causes that remain hidden somewhere far away in the verse? And how much is it estimated that the absence of AI has affected humanity's social and technological evolution?
Answer: First, here's the established backstory on Humanity's deep-seated aversion to AI. It began in 2044 with the infamous "Lemming Car" (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/12977-News-Update-WILL-WE-NEVER-LEARN) incident in Tokyo. Next, though not blamed specifically on AI, the government did admit that an AI malfunction might've played a part in the terraforming accident known as the Mars Tragedy (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/galactapedia/article/bmNrgKnZ6l-mars-tragedy) of 2125. Most famously, following its launch in 2232, the Artemis (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/galactapedia/article/0jGxngnLzm-artemis) colony ship disappeared while under the control of an AI named Janus (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/galactapedia/article/VDzOvEdNyd-janus). Three consecutive centuries with massive AI failures soured Humanity on the tech and there's been no significant research into it since the 23rd century.
There were probably a number of lesser known AI-related accidents and incidents during those earlier centuries, but none that we're currently keeping secret. Yet, if it's determined we need one to justify something in-game then we'll have fun creating it. But just based on the timeline, it wouldn't involve either aliens (who we first encountered in 2438) or the Messers (who came to power in 2546).
Now, how the AI ban has affected Humanity's evolution is a super interesting and highly debatable topic. It definitely led to a more tactile and chaotic universe. One where stuff is less standardized and more prone to Human error. During the last Imperator election, candidate Addison openly argued that we're less technologically advanced because of it. Whether that’s a good thing or not might be in the eye of the beholder. It's also interesting to think about how it’s affected Human culture. Could definitely see an argument that Humanity would be more culturally vibrant if people had more time to create art while AI focused on menial and labor intensive tasks.
That’s the Lore explanation behind the justification, but the reasoning behind no AI was a stylistic choice based on early conversations with Chris. When talking over the type of world/experience he wanted to build for players, there was a general acknowledgement that while AI would most likely be a large part of Humanity’s development in the real world, Chris wanted players to be the ones to get out there, explore the universe, and dogfight among the stars, not rely on their AI supercomputers to do it. He was looking to create a more visceral, tactile kind of Sci-Fi, so we started building up all these missteps throughout our fictional history where every foray into AI development would end in catastrophe to explain why people soured on the idea of it.
