Hi @Traghera -
We answered your question in the this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/18297-Loremakers-Community-Questions). Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: Are they all awarded by nomination and confirmed by the Senate? What about Admirals, Generals, and other positions of note in the government?
Answer: We’ve thought through the broad strokes for how it works and are happy to share some specifics. Let’s start with the most important non-elected positions, the members of an Imperator’s Tribunal (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/galactapedia/article/bZwq5Nr5EL-tribunal), High-Secretary, High-Command, and High-Advocate. Each one faces a slightly different confirmation process, which then extends to other high level positions within that respective branch.
Candidates for High-Secretary (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/galactapedia/article/RkG2n2MWYn-high-secretary), who oversees matters pertaining to UEE infrastructure, are nominated by the Imperator and appear before the full Senate for confirmation. 2/3rds of the Senate must vote against the candidate for the nomination to fail, helping ensure that the Imperator can staff the position with someone who supports the policies they were elected to accomplish. Nominees for high level positions under the High-Secretary’s purview, like Ambassadors and government department heads, would appear for a confirmation hearing before the Senate committee overseeing their department. If approved by the committee, their nomination moves to the full Senate for a vote with a simple majority needed to be approved. If the Imperator wants to retain the person currently in a position, the nomination would skip the committee step and be put directly before the full Senate for a vote.
Nominees for High-Command (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/galactapedia/article/RegxqX26ok-high-command), consisting of a representative from each military branch (Legatus Navium, Legatus Exercitus, and Legatus Marinuum), must first be approved by a military council comprised of current and former members of each branch of the military. Once approved, the nominees go before the Senate and must receive a simple majority to be confirmed. Active duty officers, like Admirals or Generals, do not to be reconfirmed to their position and may be promoted or replaced at the will of High-Command. If the actions of a High-Command officer displeases the military, the council can reconvene for a vote of no confidence, which if passed must then be approved by the Senate.
Finally, the High-Advocate (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/galactapedia/article/RWolAld13P-high-advocate) nominee must be approved by the Directors Council, a committee composed of the heads of the various law enforcement and judicial departments that fall under the High-Advocate’s control. Nominees for high level positions under the High-Advocate must also be approved by the Directors Council. Since the Senate creates laws and the High-Advocate is responsible for enforcing and interpreting them, neither the Imperator or Senate is involved in their confirmation process. This was a change meant to make this branch of government more independent and occurred after the fall of the Messers, who had used the Advocacy as their personal enforcement bureau. Though free from Imperator or Senatorial control, they do have the power to censure a High-Advocate, or other appointee within that branch, and potentially remove them via a vote of no confidence. A process that must be approved by 2/3rds of the Senate and supported by the current High-Secretary and High-Command.
