Hi @SokoSplat -
We answered your question in the this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/18297-Loremakers-Community-Questions). Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: Do they primarily see and hear like a human, or are there some oddities out there? Are there any obvious perception differences between alien races that could impact storylines?
Answer: Banu can comfortably breath in a variety of atmospheres and can adapt to a wide range of environments not suitable for Humans. While Banu ears aren’t as sharp as Human ones, their sense of smell is much, much better. They pick up details that we can’t; stuff like the interesting scent profile of a tortoise shell, the depth of character of well-used leather, the history of a grease patina, or the qualities of various types of dust. While sensitive, Banu do not typically find certain smells offensive. This is one of the reasons they appreciate flavors that Humans (or even Xi’an) would find distasteful. Complexity, to Banu, is the cornerstone of a good meal.
Tevarin physiology made them very vulnerable to attack from larger predators on their homeworld. Venturing out alone was extremely dangerous, so the species had to work together to outsmart predators and other threats. This drove them to focus on defensive technologies and tactics to increase their chance of survival. The shield technology found on ships in the modern UEE originally came from the Tevarin.
Xi'an eyes are quite large and are able to see further into the infrared spectrum than Human eyesight, providing them a natural way to visually track heat. The species also has a less developed sense of taste and smell compared to Humans. Xi'an love decomposing food, so adventurous Human eaters would first have to get past the smell before potentially having all their taste buds numbed by the intense spices flavoring it.
Finally, the Vanduul can survive in a vacuum for a bit. One other very important thing to know about how the Vanduul perceive the world around them is (REDACTED)(REDACTED)(REDACTED), so definitely be aware of that!
