What do you feel was missing in the Nine Tails event that made it less engaging than the Xenothreat?
So many things. I'll take this opportunity to do a sort of mini postmortem.
Insufficient Medical Supplies:
There aren't enough medical supplies available for haulers to participate freely in the event. 
For Ninetails Lockdown, some of you who participated in the very first Evocati test might actually remember there were shop mods that made it so the shops selling medical supplies had their sell inventories boosted, much like the station has its buy inventory capacity boosted. We decided to remove those mods to emphasize the derelicts due to XenoThreat feedback.
Thanks to the Ninetails feedback that has come in, I was able to rehash that conversation and I have hooked the shop mods for sell locations back up for 3.15.
We're a bit worried this will be too profitable, but an enjoyable experience is worth a little temporary economic destabilization, and this is something that can be tuned. Longer-term, improvements to the shop system should also help this.
Players not playing the Nine Tail's side:
This is the most painful one for me. Based on our analytics, for every 1 Nine Tails-aligned player there were 20 Crusader-aligned players. Short term, I'm looking to increase the rewards for the Nine Tails, but if I'm being honest, I expect this to have very little impact.
Longer-term, I've requested some tech to deal with Nine Tails-aligned players being sent to jail, and once players can obtain Nine Tails reputation, my hope is that I can move away from using CrimeStats as a determiner for participation, and thus have players be a bit more long-term in what sides they want to align with.
Event was too short:
Many players were unable to participate in the event due to it ending before they could log in. Mea culpa on this one. I had set the prologue phase to one hour, thinking that would be sufficient. This number is dynamically tunable whenever we launch the event, so we will probably extend the prologue a bit in the future.
I also have asked that, in the future, at least until we have a large enough stable of these events to allow players to regularly log in and find something available, we give a bit more outside-the-game warning for Nine Tails, so people can plan to log in.
Event was too long/repetitive:
As other systems come into place throughout the game, my hope is that this will naturally evolve a bit. For instance, one of my least favorite pieces of the event right now is that I send out AI scanner ships for players to defend. I would vastly prefer that I offer this job to players as well, once long-distance scanning becomes more of thing.
Doesn't Feel like a blockade:
While flying in, you are not attacked nearly enough by Nine Tails AI. This was one we saw coming, but its not fixable in the short-term. It's actually a performance problem combined with a few AI problems. The ships are taking a long time to spawn (so you've already flown by), they spawn standing still, and they cannot currently fly fast enough to catch up to you/don't have a way to stop you. Performance will be an ongoing fight, the rest are things that have active discussions about solutions going.
