16008 errors encompass a large number of things going wrong which makes investigating it difficult. Some of them are bugs and some are tech support problems. Because of this, the easiest way for us to know when an account is broken is if a player having this issue contacts our support team and gives them permission to temporarily change their password and log into the account. Once we've verified an account is broken, we can use it as an example for developers and give them actionable information to investigate and find a fix. Long term: to make it easier to troubleshoot these issues, one of the things that we need to do is make the error handling for logging into the game better than it currently is. We would basically need to split several of the current causes for this error into their own disconnection reasons. While it's possible that there will still be bugs and tech support problems sharing the same error code after this is done, it should be better than it is now and that remains something that we can iterate on in the future.
The login queue error during play is something that I currently have a bug in for, as I noticed someone mention that a while ago in the tech support forum and investigated it. From what I can tell, it looks like if someones game client loses connectivity to the authentication service temporarily ( which will always be possible because there are a ton of ways that connections can drop), it puts their account back into the login queue when it reconnects. It's obviously not supposed to be putting the account back in the login queue since they're already connected to a game server. The expected behavior for brief connectivity issues is that the game client should recover the connection without the player noticing that anything went wrong. The current iteration of the login queue is not its final form and will be updated, but that work is being prioritized against other work that also needs to be done by the same team. However I can certainly go poke the bug for this as a reminder.
Infinite loading screens: So ultimately what happens here is that the game client is waiting for an event that tells it to dismiss the loading screen to occur, and it doesn't. So any time there's an infinite loading screen, there is actually two bugs. One bug that the sequence of events got stuck, and another that there was no disconnection error ( provided that someone actually waits 5 minutes for our default infinite loading screen error to occur ).  There are a bunch of ways that this can happen, so infinite loading screens typically are not all the same problem. Fixing them typically involves needing information on what the client was waiting for and information of what the game server it was connecting to was doing which can make fixing the issues challenging.
