- Healing T0 and Actor Status T1
Complete overhaul of the Healing and the Actor Health systems. These two systems are intrinsically linked for players to determine the effects of damage on an actor and allow themselves and other players to action on those effects. These effects range from minor visual and audio feeback, to state changes where player control is removed, and to the death and (in a player’s case) respawning of a character.
Incapacitated State: When a player is damaged enough they will enter an, “Incapacitated” state where they enter ragdoll, are unable to move or interact, and their vision fades in and out. A time until death is displayed to the player, which once expired leads to their death and respawn at a medical facility. The duration can be shortened by receiving additional damage, and by other actor statuses (bleeding, dehydration, extreme temperature etc.). Instant death can be caused by receiving a large amount of damage in one instance. When a player is incapacitated a button prompt is displayed to trigger a service beacon, which if taken up by another player, creates a mission for said player to revive the incapacitated player. A second player can use a synced revival with a medical pen (mouse2 when close to the downed player) which will bring the downed player back to 50% health. The sync’d revival can be performed on a player that is face down, or on their back. The medical gun and multi-tool healing attachment can fire a beam as a means of delivering a healing drug, which can also revive an Incapacitated player.
Death & Regeneration: After a player dies, they will now regenerate in a medical bed instead of a hab bed. By default, the player will regenerate at their home location (set via the front end the first time they enter the game). A player may set a different regeneration location by visiting its hospital or clinic (any Tier 2 or Tier 1 facility can be used, in a static location, or a ship) and navigating the UI on a medical bed, medical bed’s end screen, or dedicated regeneration terminal. A player may reset their regeneration location to their home location via the same screens. If a player’s set regeneration location is not available at the time of death (e.g. if a ship is out of range, logged out, or destroyed), the player will respawn at their home location instead, and their set regeneration location will remain as their home until a new location is set. If a player’s set regeneration location is temporarily unavailable due to all beds being full, they will be given the option to regenerate at their home location instead, in order to avoid waiting in the queue.
Injuries: When an actor’s body part (head, torso, left arm, right arm, left leg, right leg) is damaged, a corresponding amount of wear damage is applied to that same body part. Healing increases HP, but does not affect wear damage; when enough wear is accrued a body part will gain an injury. Further wear to the same body part can lead to increased injury severities. Injuries add symptoms that affect gameplay, and introduce audio and visual effects. Injury severity is classified as “Minor”, “Moderate”, and “Severe”, with corresponding medical facility Tiers 3, 2 and 1; Tier 3 can remove a Minor injury, Tier 2 can remove Minor and Moderate severity injuries, Tier 1 can remove any injury. Hurt Locomotion is triggered when any body part’s injury reaches “Severe”, or when a leg injury reaches “Moderate” severity. The player is forced into prone stance whilst they have a Severe leg injury. The player is forced into the ArmsLock state when they have a Severe arm injury.
BloodDrugLevel: Blood drug level (BDL) increases when a player is given any medicinal drugs (via medgun, multi-tool, medpens or medical beds), or drinks alcohol. As a player’s BDL increases they will eventually enter drunk locomotion and drunk; when BDL reaches 100% the player will enter the Overdosed state. BDL decays over time.The Overdosed state results in the player entering ragdoll, being unable to move or interact, and their vision fading in and out; whilst this is similar to Incapacitated, once the BDL decays to below 100%, the player will exit Overdosed state and be able to move again. The player takes damage whilst in the Overdosed state, taking increasingly more damage as BDL increases from 100% to 200% - this can lead to the player becoming Incapacitated, which in turn can lead to death, if the BDL does not reach less than 100% before health reaches 0.
Medicinal Drugs: Injury’s symptoms can be temporarily masked by medicinal drugs, health can be regenerated, and the stunned effects of the overdosed state temporarily removed, at the cost of accruing BDL per dosage. Drugs can be delivered via an injection pen, healing beam (medgun or multi-tool healing attachment) or a medical bed. Drugs remain in a character’s system for a specified duration, with increased doses resulting in increased durations; the delivery method’s efficacy also affects duration, with higher durations for medical beds > medical gun > medicinal pens. These drugs include: Hemozal (MedPen): Heals HP/stops bleeding/revives from Incapacitated. Roxaphen (OpioPen): Masks Hurt Locomotion, ProneLock, ArmsLock, Pain Grunt SFX. Demexatrine (AdrenaPen): Masks Reduced stun recovery, reduced impact resistance (force reactions sensitivity), reduced movement speed, increased weapon sway, decreased ADS enter times. Sterogen (CoricoPen): Masks blood vision, muffled audio effects, reduced stamina regen, reduced max stamina, wheezing audio effects, reduced melee force. Resurgera (DetoxPen): Revives an overdosed character (provided they are not also in the incapacitated state) but does not exit the Overdosed state, thus damage is still applied to the Overdosed character. While Resurgera is present in a character, all other drug’s decay rates are doubled, resulting in their duration being reduced. BDL decay rate is doubled, resulting in the Overdosed state being exited more quickly. Four new med pens: Four new medpens (Roxaphen OpioPen, Demexatrine AdrenaPen, Sterogen CoricoPen, Resurgera DetoxPen) have been added to shops in multiple locations.
Medical Gun & Multi-Tool Healing attachment: Healing beam: Players are able to administer drugs via a healing beam, when within 5m of their target character. Diagnosis: Both Medical Gun & Multi-Tool display health and actor status information about the character they’re pointed at. The back display of both shows how much medicinal ammo is available, and either the current target character’s health, or the reason they can’t be fired upon. Two AR UI cards display either side of a character the medical gun or multi-tool are pointed at, the left card displays information on specific body part being pointed at (injuries, recommended drugs) the right card displays global health information, including health, actor states such as bleeding, time until death, any administered drugs and their time remaining. As a body part is pointed at by medical gun or multi-tool, the AR UI highlights the body part, displaying a transparent color coded overlay, indicating which tier of injury (if any) the body part has. Self-healing mode: both multi-tool healing attachment and Medical Gun’s secondary fire mode allows self-diagnosis and self-healing. Healing: Multi-Tool & Medical Gun’s basic mode are limited to healing (delivering Hemozal). Specified Dosage:The Medical Gun’s advanced mode allows dosage of each drug to be specified, with the predicted duration of the drugs and the resulting BDL level.
Medical Beds: Each medical bed has a care facility tier rating (3, 2 or 1) which determines which injuries it can remove, and which it cannot. Interactable screens contain functionality to display - Status: displays a color coded silhouette of the player’s body and skeleton showing injuries and recommended treatment or drugs. Treatment: displays a smaller version of the Status screen, and a list of the available treatments. Medication: displays an interface that allows custom drug dosage to be specified. Regeneration: Set respawn location to current bed. Respawning after death: players now respawn in a medical bed instead of a hab bed. Waking up after rescue: players that enter a downed state in a landing zone, or are admitted via Emergency elevators (see below) will wake up in hospital bed with their items stored in the local inventory.
Hospital Gameplay: Players can enter a hospital lobby, reserve a room via a check-in screen (to make use of its medbed), change their respawn location, purchase all medical items from a pharmacy shop, and use the elevator to enter the floor their assigned room is on. Emergency elevators: Landing Zone hangars have been updated to include an emergency drop-off elevator. If a downed, injured, or overdosed player is dragged into the elevator, another player can send them to hospital via the interface outside of the elevator. Once in the elevator the player will close the doors and the rescued player will wake up in a hospital.
