I'm not QA anymore but I did help to introduce CIG to the QA specialist system ( something I borrowed from a previous job ).
What kind of QA team:
At CIG we use a combination of QA Specialists, Live QA, and automation testing which are things that are commonly used for MMO games. It's been several years since I was in the QA team so I'm going to describe how these work from a general point of view.
QA specialists are testers that are expected to be experts on a specific game system. MMO games tend to be too large to expect everyone on the QA team to understand how all the different systems work and the expertise that go into testing various aspects of how a game works requires different sets of skills. These specialists are responsible for maintaining communication with the developers working on the system they are a specialist for, maintaining documentation for how to correctly test these systems, and communicating with their QA leads so that QA leadership can maintain a good overall idea for the state of the game.
The Live QA team are firefighters that help to investigate issues that are taking place on builds that have already been published to the public or PTU environment. They keep a close eye on the Issue Council in case any new issues that we aren't aware of pop up so that they can be investigated, reproduced, and tracked.
Automation testing is exactly like it sounds. We have some systems in place that will run scripted tests on the game and report statistics for what the tests ran into.
How many hours:
That's something that will change from one build to another. The amount of testing that a build needs will vary depending on how many things have been changed and how difficult the issues are to test. I ran into some issues in the past where it took multiple hours properly investigate and document a single bug because of how complicated the workflow was for gathering all the needed debug information. I imagine the QA team still runs into issues like that because Star Citizen is pretty complex. New features that get added to the game go through a lot of testing before they're integrated into the version of the game that is compiled for players and that can take a fair amount of testing depending on the complexity of the feature, number of bugs, and how many iterations the system has to go through before it's in a playable state.
