Hello everyone,
With the release Alpha 3.15.1 later this month, we'll introduce the first phase of our Easy Anti-Cheat (EAC) rollout for Star Citizen.
Easy Anti-Cheat is an anti-cheat service used by numerous popular games (many which you've probably played!), countering cheating and the use of unauthorized third party software in multiplayer PC games. You can find more info about Easy Anti-Cheat here: https://www.easy.ac
Preventing the use of potentially harmful software (including cheats) in our game remains one of our critical objectives for creating a fun and fair multiplayer experience for everyone to enjoy. As a result, you may encounter an error message that will either kick you from the game, or prevent the game from launching due to the detection of unauthorized changes in your game files.
We are aware that some players are using modded files to enhance their game experience, such as changes to the UI, localization/additional language support, and more. We want to give you an early heads-up that EAC will block most of these mods initially, which will result in you being unable to launch the game until the modded files are removed from your local download.
However, the passion and creativity of the Star Citizen community knows no bounds, and some of the ongoing projects out there are truly remarkable, especially on the localization front. While you may encounter these mods not working with 3.15.1, we are already exploring what a "Mod Approval Program" might look like, which could allow mods to be whitelisted after an extensive compatibility and security check from our side. We're not quite ready to commit to this yet, but we've already reached out to some of the mod creators out there and are exploring options and will report back soon.
Lastly, it's important to note that this is our first proper implementation of anti-cheat, which means there may be edge cases/issues, and the service will become more robust over time - we encourage you to share your feedback in our dedicated feedback thread, which we'll publish when the anti-cheat goes live.
