- Healing T0 and Actor Status T1
Complete overhaul of the Healing and the Actor Health systems. These two systems are intrinsically linked for players to determine the effects of damage on an actor and allow themselves and other players to action on those effects. These effects range from minor visual and audio feedback, to state changes where player control is hindered or removed, up to the death and (in a player’s case) regeneration of a character.
Incapacitated State: When a player is damaged enough, they will enter an “Incapacitated” state. Once incapacitated, their character will collapse, be unable to move or interact, their vision will fade in and out, and a time until death will be displayed. Once the timer has expired, the player will die and be regenerated at a medical facility. The duration of the timer can be shortened by receiving additional damage, and by other actor statuses (bleeding, dehydration, extreme temperature etc.). Instant death can be caused by receiving a large amount of damage at once. When a player is incapacitated a button prompt is displayed to trigger a rescue beacon, which if taken up by another player, creates a mission for said player to revive the incapacitated player. Other players can also perform a synced revive on an incapacitated player with a medical pen (mouse2 when close to the downed player) to bring them back to 50% health. The synced revival can be performed on a player that is face down or on their back. The medical gun and multi-tool healing attachment can also be used to administer a healing drug to revive incapacitated players.
Death & Regeneration: After a player dies, they will now regenerate in a medical bed instead of a hab bed. By default, the player will regenerate at the hospital at their primary residence location (set via the front end the first time they enter the game). A player may set a different regeneration location by visiting any Tier 1 or Tier 2 facility in a hospital, clinic or vehicle, and navigating the UI on a medical bed, medical bed’s end screen, or dedicated regeneration terminal. A player may reset their regeneration location to their primary residence via the same screens. If a player’s set regeneration location is not available at the time of death (e.g. if a ship is out of range, logged out, or destroyed), the player will respawn at their primary residence instead, and their set regeneration location will remain there until a new location is set. If a player’s set regeneration location is temporarily unavailable due to all beds being full, they will be given the option to regenerate at their primary residence instead, in order to avoid waiting in a queue
Injuries: When an actor’s body part (head, torso, left arm, right arm, left leg, right leg) is damaged, a corresponding amount of wear damage is applied to that same part. When enough wear damage is accrued, an injury is gained. Further wear to the same body part can lead to increased injury severities. Injuries add symptoms that affect gameplay, and introduce audio and visual effects. Injury severity is classified as “Minor”, “Moderate”, and “Severe.” While healing increases HP, it does not affect wear damage. To repair body parts with injuries, players must visit an appropriately tiered medical facility: Tier 3 can remove a Minor injury, Tier 2 can remove Minor and Moderate severity injuries, Tier 1 can remove any injury. Hurt Locomotion is triggered when any body part’s injury reaches Severe, or when a leg injury reaches Moderate. A Severe leg injury forces the player into a prone stance hindering movement. A Severe arm injury forces the player into the ArmsLock state limiting interactions.
BloodDrugLevel: Blood drug level (BDL) increases when a player drinks alcohol or is given any medicinal drugs (via medgun, multi-tool, medpens or medical beds). As a player’s BDL increases they will eventually enter an intoxicated locomotion state. When their BDL reaches 100% the player will enter the Overdosed state resulting in the player collapsing, being unable to move or interact, and their vision fading in and out. While this is similar to being incapacitated, once their BDL decays to below 100%, the player will exit the Overdosed state and be able to move again. The player takes damage while in the Overdosed state; taking increasingly more damage as BDL increases from 100% to 200% - this can lead to the player becoming Incapacitated, which in turn can lead to death if the BDL does not reach less than 100% before health reaches 0.
Medicinal Drugs: Symptoms from injuries can be temporarily masked, health can be recovered, and overdosed stun effects can be temporarily alleviated with that administration of medicinal drugs. Drugs can be delivered via an injection pen, healing beam (medgun or multi-tool healing attachment) or a medical bed. The player's BDL will increase per dosage. Drugs remain in a character’s system for a specified duration, with increased doses resulting in increased durations. The delivery method’s efficacy also affects duration, with higher durations for medical beds > medical gun > medicinal pens. These drugs include: Hemozal (MedPen) which heals HP, stops bleeding, and revives from Incapacitated. Roxaphen (OpioPen) which masks Hurt Locomotion, ProneLock, ArmsLock, and the Pain Grunt SFX. Demexatrine (AdrenaPen) which masks reduced stun recovery, reduced impact resistance (force reactions sensitivity), reduced movement speed, increased weapon sway, and decreased ADS enter times. Sterogen (CoricoPen) which masks blood vision, muffled audio effects, reduced stamina regen, reduced max stamina, wheezing audio effects, and reduced melee force. Resurgera (DetoxPen) which revives an overdosed character (provided they are not also in the incapacitated state) but does not exit the Overdosed state, thus damage is still applied to the Overdosed character. While Resurgera is present in a character, all other drug’s decay rates are doubled, resulting in their duration being reduced but the character's BDL decay rate is alos doubled, resulting in the Overdosed state being exited more quickly. Four new medpens (Roxaphen OpioPen, Demexatrine AdrenaPen, Sterogen CoricoPen, Resurgera DetoxPen) have been added to shops in multiple locations.
ParaMed Medical Device & Multi-Tool Medical Attachment: Players are able to administer drugs via a healing beam through the ParaMed medical device and multi-tool healing attachment when within 5m of their target character. Both can display health and actor status information about the character they’re pointed at. The back displays show how much medicine is available, and either the current target character’s health, or the reason they can’t be treated. Two AR UI cards display either side of the target character with the left card displaying information on the specific body part being pointed at (injuries, recommended drugs) and the right card displaying global health information like overall health, actor states such as bleeding or time until death, and the duration of any administered drugs. As a body part is pointed at, the AR UI highlights the body part, displaying a transparent color coded overlay, indicating which tier of injury (if any) the body part has. Both medical tools feature a secondary fire mode that allow self-diagnosis and self-healing. While the multi-tool healing attachment is limited to healing via Hemozal, the ParaMed has two modes - A basic mode that behaves similarly to the multi-tool attachment, and an advanced mode that allows the dosage of each drug to be specified, with the predicted duration of the drugs and the resulting BDL level displayed.
Medical Beds: Players will now regenerate in a medical bed instead of a hab bed. Players that enter a downed state in a landing zone, or are admitted via the Emergency elevators located in landing zone hangars will wake up in a hospital bed with their items stored in the local inventory. Each medical bed has a care facility tier rating (3, 2 or 1) which determines which injuries it can treat, and which it cannot. The Digital Medical Assistant terminals on the bed feature several functions - The Status screen displays a color coded silhouette of the patient showing injuries alongside recommended treatments and medicines. The Treatment screen displays a smaller version of the Status screen, and a list of the available treatments. The Medication screen displays an interface that allows custom drug dosage to be specified. The Regeneration screen will all the patient's regen location to be set to the current facility or vehicle.
Hospital Gameplay: Players can enter a hospital lobby, reserve a room via a check-in screen (to make use of its medical beds), change their regeneration location, purchase all medical items from the pharmacy, and use the elevators to reach the floor their assigned room is on. Landing Zone hangars have been updated to include an emergency drop-off elevator where downed, injured, or overdosed players can be dragged by another player and sent to the hospital via the interface outside of the elevator. Once the elevator doors close, the rescued player will wake up in a hospital.
