I've seen this a few times recently as we get further and further away from the initial launch of the new roadmap, so I just wanted to clarify a few things about the key differences between Release View and Progress Tracker. I'm also working on a FAQ that will go into more detail.
Release View is just about the same as it always was. It is to show which features are intended for upcoming release windows. These features are marked as "Tentative" and greyed out until final review happens. If it gets a green light for that release window, we toggle it to committed (which happened for quite a few features this update!).
Progress Tracker, on the other hand, is not indicative of a release window whatsoever. This is a very common misconception that I've seen quite a bit recently. The data you see represented is a near 1:1 representation of internal planning for these features. Progress Tracker is a good way to see what priorities development has at any given time, up to four quarters into the future depending on the team.
The reason you may see a deliverable's work "end" as it were, is that team's work has finished for the time being. It could be either picked up again by the same team, or another team. Let's take the Space Whale for example! The work by the Character Art team and the AI teams are complete, for now, but additional work may need to be scheduled for it, such as work done by the Audio or VFX teams, or even more AI or Character work.
Progress Tracker is extremely fluid, things shift around all the time for a wide variety of reasons, from a change in development priority, change in technology, change in staffing, and even to previous features taking longer to finish than expected, which is a constant in game development. This isn't unique to us, however we operate with an open door, resulting in the public seeing how the sausage is made. In Roadmap Roundup, I call out the big highlights, especially if something is being removed. Almost every time, however, the reasons for something to be removed from the Progress Tracker altogether, such as the four removed today, are due to the other features those teams are working on needing additional resources to complete, so a decision was made to reallocate it. Planning sometimes takes longer than the time between publishes, so if it's removed, the re-planning just hasn't happened yet. I call these out in the Roundup specifically.
Hopefully that gives a bit more clarity as to how each part of the roadmap works and what it represents. And as I mentioned before, I'm working on a more comprehensive FAQ that everyone can use as a reference.
TL;DR: Release View is our planned release windows for features, and Progress Tracker is not indicative of when features are complete.
