Hi @Angelpure -
We answered your question in the this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/18471-Loremakers-Community-Questions).
Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: Given that the Pyro system is described as "a desolate lifeless star system crippled by a prolonged nova phase" how come there are trees and/or vegetation on 5 of 6 planets? It would be weird if all star systems had life, water and vegetation because of how rare it is in the universe.
Answer: When it comes to locations we strive to balance realism with environments that also provide potential gameplay. Sometimes things swing more towards the "rule of cool" or simply to make a more interesting and visually arresting environment for the players to explore, so it's Narrative's job to fill in the gaps. Hypothetically, we could say some of this vegetation is not native to Pyro but was brought in by Humans over the years, either intentionally or accidentally, and happened to take to that environment. Also, there's the great conceit that space and its inhabitants are probably way weirder than we could ever imagine. There's a good chance that there are lifeforms out there that defy the conventions we're all familiar with. So there's room in these locations for sci-fi plants that'll add to the mystique of the location and help give each system a unique look and feel.
Of course, this means Narrative will have to retcon stuff as we go along. In this case, the cited Pyro description is from a Galactic Guide that was written early in our development process, back before we discovered that we would have tech that would enable planet-wide landings. Players were expected to spend most of their planet-side time in specific areas or landing zones, so part of our job was to justify why people weren't scouring certain planets for resources. Once Pyro is realized in-game, we'll revisit the lore established in the Galactic Guide and adjust accordingly to match what's been developed, much like what we've already done for the Stanton system.
