Hi @Sir-Berticus -
We answered your question in the this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/18471-Loremakers-Community-Questions).
Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: An earlier LoreMakers mentioned the Tevarin homeworld contained large, dangerous predators. Are any of these Predators still around or did they go extinct? If they’re still around, what can you tell us about them? Are they a threat to Humans?
Answer: We haven't delved into details about exactly what creatures preyed upon the Tevarin. Their existence was created to explain why the Tevarin culture developed around the Rijora, a sacred warrior code, and why the species specialized in defensive technologies and tactics. Both elements essential to a species that began low on the food chain but evolved into the dominant force on their homeworld of Kaleeth (Jalan, Elysium IV).
Most of these predators were probably driven to extinction as the Tevarin species evolved over the millennia, much like most of the megafauna that roamed Earth. Overhunting, ecological disturbance due to Tevarin ascendance, and other evolutionary and geological factors would've played a role in these species vanishing. Still, there's a chance some of these predators survived, though probably in reduced numbers and locations. Since Humans and Tevarin breathe similar atmospheres, the world was never terraformed and the planet's original environment remains intact. Of course, such species would've also had to survive the destruction brought upon the planet during the Tevarin Wars and other changes (increased population, agricultural production, resource extraction, etc.) that accompanied Human occupation.
So while there are no predators developed at the moment, there's enough wiggle room in the lore to make a trip into remote parts of Jalan potentially dangerous, if we determine it to be a fun addition to the world. Who knows? Maybe a species or two could've even been transported off world and taken hold elsewhere. Essentially, if the Character team creates a scary, bloodthirsty creature, having established such predators in lore gives us a built-in backstory to explain their existence.
