Hi @Timo_Ses -
We answered your question in the this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/18471-Loremakers-Community-Questions).
Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: The short story Sojourner Travelogue mentioned that Captain Ezura was injected with hydrogel when he "looked sick". As a medical engineer this sentence caught my attention. What is the idea behind a hydrogel injection?
Hydrogel today is a biocompatible material with many promises, apparently including the idea of injections already today [1,2]. Other applications include for example scaffolds (e.g. application to a wound either outside or inside of the body) with ideas of continuously delivering drugs/medication towards the wounded tissue and potentially dissolving/removing itself once healing is done.
How is hydrogel used in Star Citizen relating to injections and what is the technological idea behind them? Are perhaps MedPens also a kind of hydrogel? Are hydrogels injected with the goal of reaching the bloodstream? I doubt injection into the bloodstream would be a great idea. One would more likely inject it into a stable location where potentially drugs can be released into the bloodstream from it. However, I suppose there is quite some room for hypothesizing medical applications and technology. I would love to see some elaboration on this matter.
Answer: The information and ideas about hydrogel that you brought up are super interesting. Can only imagine what medical advancements could come from injecting hydrogel into the body to continuously deliver medication, aid tissue formation, and more. While those potential real world applications are incredible, the hydrogel referenced in Sojourner Travelogue is actually a hydration gel. So the Sojourner crew essentially gave Captain Ezura fluids to replace what he'd lost and put him to bed. Considering the confusion with this current tech, "hydro-gel" might be a better way for us to write it.
When doing the initial pass on healing tech, we also created a number of medicines that you'd find over the counter. So you may encounter hydro-gel someday at a local Kel-To or hospital pharmacy. The brand created for it is Deutrioxate, which is described as an oral hydro-gel and marketed as an extremely concentrated water replacement.
