Hi @amoral -
We answered your question in the this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/18471-Loremakers-Community-Questions).
Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: How has regen tech affected UEE society now that death doesn’t mean the end? With the majority of society having an imprint, premature death is at least somewhat delayed.
And how has that affected the military? Sure they’re not supersoldiers or clones with endless "lives'' but UEE forces now have a few "tries." They might be more experienced and lack the fear troops formerly had, making them more risky and aggressive and... less humane as a result. Same factors might affect everyone involved in armed conflict on a regular basis, including outlaws. Does this decrease the value of life as some might assume everyone has an imprint now, so they care less about the wellbeing of others and are more prone to violence?
Finally, what do the Xi'an and Banu think of such tech and can they use it?
Answer: With lots of regen questions out there, we picked this question because it hits upon several points often brought up on the forum. Some of this ground was covered in Star Citizen Live: Regeneration Elaboration, which we highly recommend watching if you’re interested in the topic, but wanted to address it here too so as many people see it as possible.
To begin, it’s probably too early to say exactly how regen rewriting the rules of death will affect UEE society. Making this tech revolution contemporary to the PU timeline means it’s something we all get to figure out together. It will be interesting to see how, or if, people’s playstyles change. Will players be more aggressive or cautious? Will outlaws be more willing to fight a bounty hunter instead of running if death means the loss of items and a regen at Grim HEX instead of capture? The Narrative possibilities are endless so there’s probably no significant cultural shifts to call out right now. Sure, some people may become more aggressive and dehumanize life because folks can just regen, but there’s also some deeply humanistic areas regen tech opens us up to also, as explored in this Far From Home.
Regarding changes to the military, not permanently losing soldiers is definitely a boon but costly in many other ways. Soldiers will regen with scarring and potential mental trauma that may compromise their effectiveness. Crazy, careless tactics would also be costly when considering medical facilities and rehabilitation costs, plus the destruction of vital equipment like ships and weapons.
Finally, how the other alien species feel about this tech is something we’ll be exploring going forward. The Xi’an and Banu haven’t created similar tech themselves so they would be reliant on Humanity for it. Whether they use it or not, and how they feel about it, is still to be seen. This should be a fun and fertile area to explore going forward, as it provides a great window into how both species view death.
