A lot of the functioning of this system is currently obscured by bugs.  Specifically, storing a ship seems to lock in its current signatures as a  lower bound, so powering off systems will make your sig look lower to  you, but not other players. Similarly, quantum travel seems to spike  your EM to very high levels, and while it comes down again on your hud,  again, the value shown on your hud is not reflected in how detectable  you are to other players who will see you at ranges that should only be  possible if your QD was still on. So basically if you go anywhere, or  retrieve a ship without readying it for future stealth ops at the time  of storage, you're screwed for stealth since your HUD is just lying to  you.
We are aware of this bug. There is also another issue with streaming. You can be emitting a high enough signature for someone to potentially see you but the ship is not streamed in on your client. We are experimenting with delta signatures to indicate an event was detected inside and/or outside of the streaming range. For example, someone did a QT jump, interdiction, or ping nearby.
Also... the current values for cross-section are deeply puzzling. I was  expecting them to serve as a "lower bound" on ship stealthiness.  However, right now, especially on smaller ships, the CS is so huge it's  pretty much always your highest signature, and there's not a lot you can  do about it. A Warlock with powered down shields and weapons will have a  ~6k signature, except now with a 10-15k CS, what's the point? The  addition of crossection has made stealth gameplay substantially  shallower, since it renders the old signiture management moot. I know  the aspect you present to the detecting ship is supposed to affect this  somewhat, and it seems to, but since the HUD doesn't represent this at  all and the values don't seem to be standardized across ships this just  isn't information available to the general player and is still obscure  even to specialists that spend a lot of time following other players  around for various reasons.
Agreed CS is in a fuzzy state. We are having conversation on ways to deal with the values ( hand values vs physically generated ones from the signed distance fields ). There is going to be another signature pass coming in a future patch.
The usefulness of being able to tell how far away you're detectable is  also undermined by the fact that you can't tell how far away the target  you're stalking is without targeting/pinning them, which alerts them to  your presence. Back when the new targeting system was being worked on,  we were told we'd be able to see the range to "chevrons" without  targeting them, but this never materialized. (For the record, the second  "R" in "RADAR" stands for "Rangefinding.") The ships apparently have  this information available to them, since chevrons are placed at the  correct distance on a 3D radar screen without targeting them, but the  HUD just doesn't provide this data. There are some HUD options in the  gameplay menu that seem to indicate that this should be available to all  chevrons, but they seem to just not work. Also, while pinging will tell  you distance to a target, once you're close enough to detect a chevron  it won't show up on pings, so you can't use that to find range, either.
Agreed. We actually have some up and coming work to rework the tracker/marker interface. We want to move the UI out of our legacy UI system and into building blocks for a lot more customization on the design side and user side.
Someone also messed up the ping mechanic: pinging with active sensors  does not meaningfully increase EM despite us being told over and over  that this would be the case in the runup to the rework. It only raises  EM by 60 or so. In the real world, if you're using active emissions, if  the pinger and the target have equivalent sensors, the pinger should be  detectable by the target at 4x the range the target can be detected by  the pinger due to the inverse-square law. 60 extra meters is nothing,  and there's very little reason to not just go around pinging constantly  right now.
Agreed. The first phase of ping rework was publish to the public. The next phase will include some gameplay changes to its mechanism and balancing ( including the delta signature as stated above ).
All this has been reported repeatedly on the IC for many patches, but due to the low usage these systems get from normal players, it doesn't seem to get much traction so I'm not sure how aware you guys are of the issues.
The good news is we have taken the information from IC and have formed a task list after discussion on what to do with the bugs/features. Quite a few bugs are fixed in our internal stream which has not been published to the public builds yet. We hope to have another push of the feature in reasonable time.
