Hello Testers!
We have made some updates based on your feedback along with numerous tweaks and bug fixing based on the data we gathered.  From the notes:
Increased base and maximum payouts. Fixed multiple bugs, name string issues, and crashes related to the Jumptown event. Players should now receive a warning when the event is about to expire. After this warning, the drug spawner will cease production and new players will no longer be able to accept the event-related missions. After this warning will be a grace period where player's can keep their mission and event-specific locations will continue to buy Maze at an increased price.
Criminal Mission: Mission will now take a buy-in of 5000 aUEC. Mission should now display as "0+Bonuses" for its reward. Mission will now only start with one marker (Drug Lab). On arrival at drug lab, the Preferred Buyer marker will be added and some dialogue will play calling it out. If a player accepts the mission while already at the lab, the marker should just be silently added on start. When selling at the Preferred Buyer, players will receive an additional mission reward from Ruto on top of their sell value. When selling at the Preferred Buyer, Players will also receive reputation Affinity with Ruto equal to the number of Units they have sold. Criminal mission no longer ends at 85%, instead, Ruto plays a warning that the drugs have stopped spawning. Criminal mission will now instead finish at event end, at which point Ruto will inform you that his buyer has closed up shop.
Lawful Mission: Lawful mission should now display a reward of "5000+Bonuses" for Successful completion. Mission will still be completed when the event ends, however, now if the player has made a successful deposit of drugs the mission will be a Success (rewarding 5000), but if they did not turn in any drugs it will be a Failure.
Let us know what you think below! What side of the law you did you play on and how did the experience unfold? Looking forward to hearing more from you and as always, thanks for taking the time.
-Baior
Player Experience Team
