Over the Christmas period we’ve been keeping a close eye on discussions relating to the balance of the new ships we introduced in 3.16 with a particular focus on the Ion variant of the Star Fighter. Since 3.14 and the introduction of the Capacitor system our team has reworked the balance of the entire game, including the flight of all ships, weapons, and components and this work remains on going as we introduce more changes to not only the balance but the technology behind the game.
Balance is a continuing moving goal post as the game evolves and while we always aim to have the ships in the right place at the time of release, the challenges of this cannot be underestimated with changes often made right up to the release after early feedback, data from evocati and pre-releases is considered, and we sometimes don’t get the ship right where we want it the first time it’s in all of the community’s hands.
The Redeemer and Star Fighter introduced new challenges for our team, the Star Fighter in particular with its large size 7 gun coming in both ballistic and energy form was an outlier with the balance we had done so far, it really draws a fine line between its actual purpose which is to fight capital size ships to something that can be way too effective against smaller fighters.
With the early data from evocati and PTU showing the Ion specifically was far too effective against smaller fighters we made the call to make further changes before the release, these changes have now put the ship in alignment with the ballistic variant against smaller fighters and the analytics confirm that.
We are still analysing the data though, despite been happy with its performance against light fighters we still have further work to do when it comes down to the Ion's balance against larger ships. Due to the size of the weapon, and the amount of ammo available from the ballistic weapon counterpart we must take a lot of factors into consideration before making any further changes.
It’s important to repeat the statement that balance is always a moving goal post, and subject to changes. We continue to monitor the feedback from the community and analyse the data but it’s important for us not to react too quickly and make kneejerk reactions to specific comments. This may create the perception we may not be listening, or never changing the balance again but this is not reflective of how we work. A lot of the suggestions offered from the community were either trialled before release or were unable to be effectively introduced with the time available and as such the current implementation is what we are sitting with for now.
We are always listening, be kind.
Richard Towler
Lead Game Designer
Vehicle Experience Team
