Hi there! I agree that this report should not have been archived. Sorry about that!
The new Issue Council is linked to our internal issue tracking software to help communicate changes accurately and transparently to players, without taking valuable time from our developers from working on the game. However, such is the complex nature of development and issue tracking, there are certain edge cases not yet handled by the automated link.
In this particular case, we had two internal tickets open covering the same issue. The ticket linked to the Issue Council report was closed as a duplicate of the original, and at the moment this will close the IC report as "invalid", which obviously does not make sense, as the validity of a given ticket does not necessarily reflect the validity of the issue being reported. It is a major part of our team's day-to-day to account for things like this, but as you rightly pointed out - things can slip through the net.
One possible solution I put forward is to automatically update the link to use the ticket that the original one was closed as a duplicate of. That said, I do not develop the IC, so a better solution may be chosen for reasons I have not thought of. The Issue Council has received lots of improvements since its soft launch, which will continue, and in the meantime we will keep tweaking our workflows with the goal of reducing miscommunication like this to zero.
I updated the link manually since I learned of the situation- At the time of writing you should now see a fix has been submitted for it (the intended status change). There is a chance the fix does not hold due to the evasiveness of the problem (it has also affected Grim HEX's elevators for a while), however extra logging has been added to provide more detailed information should it persist. Once you are able to test a version of the game higher than 7917604, please do not hesitate to create a new report should you run into it again (we are also investigating ways to let players confirm fixes in the future rather than having to create a new report). Any reports on a version since the logging was added could help our developers to address the issue more thoroughly.
Hopefully that clears things up- I appreciate your understanding on this one. If you have any more feedback about the Issue Council, you can add it here:
https://robertsspaceindustries.com/spectrum/community/SC/forum/4/thread/issue-council-improvements-since-soft-launch
Zolarix
Player Experience Team
