Thanks for the feedback. Regarding my response to the OP, I was referring to a duplicate of the internal issue tracking tickets rather than duplicate Issue Council reports, i.e. the ones created by staff. Some duplicates are inevitable in all issue tracking and should not be seen as a failure- just a longer path to collecting all available information which needs to be consolidated. In this case, the problem was that if the internal ticket that is linked to an IC report gets closed as a duplicate, the IC report itself gets closed as "It's not a bug" at the moment, which is obviously not accurate nor ideal.
To your point, we do not have such issues with Issue Council reports being archived as a duplicate. That is a fully manual process subject to review by the Player Experience team, (although players can help to increase our awareness about possible duplicates). That does not mean that mistakes are never made, but it does mean that the community or "the system" cannot "silence" other players.
That said, while at no point is information thrown away (if that was the case reports would just be deleted when they met the criteria for archiving), we would like to more easily visually consolidate the total available information provided by players. Already, we can merge the original report as a contribution of the one we're archiving it as a duplicate of - if they haven't already contributed to that one. We are investigating the merging of contributions, but there are edge cases to consider as @Nerothor alludes to.
Regarding automatic archiving - Basic community validation or "peer review" is a core tenet of the Issue Council. At the moment, 80% of all reports have been Archived. As evidenced by the ~30k reports to the new Issue Council so far, almost all of the reports that are Archived before they get Confirmed are duplicates, provide no actionable information or misunderstand the current intended functionality of this massive, complicated and ever-changing project, which, in fairness, is hardly surprising. In the Player Experience Team, we need to spend our time turning credible player reports into actionable technical data for our developers- If we were constantly reviewing up to 5x the amount of independent reports, there would be no time left to action the reports.
That said, you are right that valid issues that impact a smaller subset of the community are failed by this system, and even though until the project is more mature there are usually going to be higher priority issues to focus on for a given release cycle, I don't believe in throwing away valid information provided voluntarily, and our mission should be to provide an objective image of the current player experience to our developers, across all areas of the game.
One area we have been looking to improve on recently is identifying the "easy wins" - independently they may not be the most severe issues affecting the highest amount of players, but fixing them (which can often be relatively or even extremely simple once the specifics are determined) can make a big difference to the quality of life of the game. For this reason, a lot of the Issue Council improvements we are hoping for focus on reducing the signal-to-noise ratio further, which, once achieved, may allow us to relax hard limits such as the expiry timer of open issues and move away from the "whatever floats to the top" model.
Zolarix
Player Experience Team
