After the build has gone through the steps that Ben has laid out, it has to go through the build system that is supported by both IT (for the hardware) and DevOps (for the build system itself). These builds are either set up to build automatically at set times, or requested by a producer and started manually in the event that a really important fix is checked in. The Star Citizen build system is something that is constantly evolving because while the game is already huge, we all know it's going to get bigger. This means that the build engineers need to both deliver and support a build system that can currently build the game, but also be working on developing new solutions for the future that are able to scale better with the size that we will need to support in the future. Before releasing these new solutions, we run a number of test deployments, fix things, test them again, etc. to make sure that the deployment process is working because anything that goes wrong with this can affect everyone’s ability to do their jobs.
Deploying builds that have gone through the build system has been greatly improved in comparison to where it was a few years ago. In the past, builds would be deployed and override whatever the oldest deployed build was. This was a problem because sometimes there could be game breaking issues that would persist for a few builds and the QA team would need to request to have an older more stable build deployed to be able to continue testing on a release build (this is preferable when possible because best practices for QA testing is to try and test the game as close to how players will play it when possible and when it makes sense to do so). Now, we've given QA leadership the ability to deploy recently built versions of the game and undeploy them when they're no longer needed. This makes sense because they are going to be the ones that know best which builds are most suitable for their testers to be spending their time on and which builds have game breaking issues in them.
