Hi @Deluded -
We answered your question in this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/18574-Loremakers-Community-Questions).
Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: Is there any possibility of a new Tevarin ship manufacturer? One that takes cues from what designs they have available to create their own new series of non-combat related ships?
Answer: This is an interesting two-part question that could potentially play out several ways. Let's start with the idea of there being a new Tevarin ship manufacturer. Currently there aren't any plans for one, but if ever needed, there are two obvious candidates. So let's do a little hypothetical worldbuilding for how we'd justify one if the Ship Team was inspired to create such a ship.
The first option would be a bold new aerospace start-up based on Jalan, Elysium system, formerly the Tevarin's homeworld of Kaleeth. Could see the company lean into the Tevarin cultural resurgence and want to make an initial splash with a non-combat ship. Their ships probably wouldn't be replicas but instead blend Tevarin design and aesthetic with some Human flourishes.
Another option would be the emergence of a new ship manufacturer in the Branaugh system, which is currently home to the largest concentration of Tevarin people. These ships would have originally been built for practical purposes and primarily used by the Tevarin within the system, thus a focus on producing non-combat craft. Compared to major UEE manufacturers, they would probably be a bit low tech and maybe use more modular designs, like a modern Tevarin take on the Drake aesthetic. Justifying why and how these ships have made their way into the wider UEE would definitely take a little more Narrative shoe leather but could be done. Like the company above, these ships wouldn't be straight replicas but modern ships designed for Tevarins that also incorporate elements from their past in interesting new ways.
Finally, if there's ever a desire to create an old school Tevarin hauler or other non-combat ship, there's always Esperia and their access to the Tevarin ships abandoned in the Kabal system. Wouldn't be surprised if some of the ships found there were geared toward the more practical and non-combat needs of the species.
