Hi @Kenge84 -
We answered your question in this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/18574-Loremakers-Community-Questions).
Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: Do the Nine Tails and the gangs of Pyro have a color scheme? If so, will the armor and gear they wear show that, and is that a lore or character team decision?
Answer: Yes, you will be seeing these visual distinctions between gangs in Pyro. The look of each gang is definitely taken into consideration during their development and is something we hope to keep improving for the current outlaws in-game. A gang's colors or other distinct visual traits are part of the kick-off process with the Character team. We also consider what type of armor they would wear and how it could distinguish between different ranks within the gang. Then there's the question of if the gang has a symbol, identifying tattoos or even, like the insane Pyro gang the Fire Rats, if members have severe burns or scars from initiation rights. A lot of these visual details are worked out together with the Character team. We provide them the palette and then let them work their magic on the specifics.
Yet, it doesn't stop there on the Narrative side. When creating these gangs we also consider factors like their area of influence, organization structure, approximate wealth, allies, rivals, and more. Answering such questions often leads us to ways to best visually present them. For example, a wealthy gang with a strict hierarchy and penchant for combat might have good gear and clear visual distinctions between ranks. Meanwhile, a shipjacking gang more focused on survival than riches might not have a cohesive look and instead mix and match whatever armor and equipment they find after a successful mission. There might even be a gang or two who avoid identifying colors and marks so they can remain mysterious and harder to track down. Simply, our goal is a diversity of looks for gangs and it's a very collaborative process between Narrative and Characters.
