Hi @Septaplex -
We answered your question in this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/18574-Loremakers-Community-Questions).
Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: What UEE system is the most dangerous for an ordinary civilian or Citizen to live in? In terms of overall crime levels & risk of piracy.
Answer: Hmmm.... not a suspicious question at all. Sure this is all part of your research into the best places to raise a family in the UEE? Since player actions will also ultimately factor into exactly how dangerous a system will be, we haven't planted a flag and said with certainty that this one system has the most criminal activity. That said, as a simple hauler who prefers stunning vistas to combat operations, here's a few systems I'll be avoiding unless absolutely necessary.
Let's start with Nexus, which is called the "Crossroads of Crime'' for a reason. Currently, it has four jump points and three of them lead into unclaimed systems that outlaws can easily escape into. Some of the most infamous criminal actions of the past few decades (Kellar's Run and the Walzer Massacre) occurred in Nexus. Criminality became so rampant that the UEE launched a major operation to reclaim Nexus III in 2934. An event that inspired the appropriately named Theaters of War map "Crossroads of Crime." Even though the UEE military now controls Nexus III, Lago (Nexus IV) remains so dangerous that most cities and outposts are heavily fortified. To get a feel for what that means for its residents, check out the short story Sid & Cyrus about an aging couple forced to venture into the untamed planetside in search of their daughter.
Following Nexus, Charon might not seem like an obvious choice, but a brutal civil war has been raging on Charon III since 2944. That means its local governments are unstable and more concerned with their survival than safety in the system. In addition, Charon owns the unique distinction of being the only UEE system to revoke their representation in the UEE Senate in protest over horrors committed there during the Messer regime. This means the Advocacy and other UEE forces are probably less likely to come to your defense here than elsewhere in the Empire.
Next, Magnus, Ferron, and Fora all have a long history of outlaw activity due to a variety of factors, including ineffectual local government and law enforcement forces. Kruger Intergalactic left Magnus for Castra in 2789 after a key shipment of parts was hijacked by outlaws, threatening their extremely lucrative and important contract with RSI. Meanwhile in Fora, a terraforming mishap on Hyperion (Fora III), the only potentially habitable planet, left this system on the edge of Banu space largely ignored by the rest of the empire. The Starmap even claims "Informal censuses of the area indicate that visitors are more likely to encounter a smuggler, outlaw or Banu settler than a UEE Citizen while in this five-planet system." Finally, Ferron was once a thriving system until manufacturers fled due to political pressure from the Messer regime and the system's easily accessible resources being mostly depleted. Things have gotten so bad that the police force in Tram, Asura (Ferron III) has gone on strike in the past in protest of the overwhelming dangers they face on the job.
Lastly, for completion's sake, two of the UEE’s most dangerous systems are that way due to natural phenomena. Banshee system has at its center a pulsar spewing so much radiation that too much exposure is a death sentence, leading to the system's only habitable areas being underground. Finally, the recently discovered Tamsa system is still technically off-limits to people while the UEE surveys and studies the black hole found there.
