Hi @MotherNature -
We answered your question in this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/18574-Loremakers-Community-Questions).
Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: I was recently poking around the lore/galactapedia and looked up the Vega system. I saw the sections I'd expect, including information on the planetary system and star, but noticed that it said that Vega was 80% the size of Earth's sun Sol. The star currently called Vega actually has a radius of 2.3 to 2.8 times the size of Sol and is 2.1 times more massive. So that had me wondering:
- Is this the same Vega (fifth brightest star seen from Earth in the night sky) that we colloquially know?
- Do your design teams look up real information on real celestial bodies to provide a starting point for laying out features and objects such as stars within star systems?
Answer: Let's start with your first question. No, the star at the center of the Vega system is not the Vega star seen from Earth, which explains the difference in size. Same goes for any other system in-game that shares a name with a star in our sky. None are meant to represent the star we’re familiar with.
Next, creating a system is an extremely collaborative endeavor between Narrative, Art, and Design. We'll focus on the Narrative side here but if you're interested in other aspects of the process check out the episode of Star Citizen Live with the Planet Content Team linked below. On the Narrative side, we first brainstormed details for each system and then worked extensively with astronomers on the science behind each one. Sometimes we bent the science a bit to make something work for the game, and sometimes we changed our original idea to match the science. This process led to a massive spreadsheet that includes a tab dedicated to the stars in-game that tracks details like Stellar Classification, Solar Mass, Surface Temperature, and much, much more. That way when Art and Design begin to do their thing we can deliver details that guide them on everything from how the star should look and exactly where the habitable planets should be placed within the green band to a moon’s temperature range and Beaufort Wind Scale.
Simply, part of Narrative's job is to provide a scientific foundation for these systems and then collaborate with Art and Design. While these details provide a good starting point for other teams, and are based on current scientific thinking, there still may be adjustments due to art or gameplay requirements. This is still a game, so at the end of the day, what looks and plays best might sometimes win out over hard science.
