Hi @Elwe_Seregon -
We answered your question in this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/18574-Loremakers-Community-Questions).
Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: What information is out there regarding the cities of New Austin or Quasi? Looking to know more about how these cities are designed and the atmosphere surrounding them, including living conditions, available work and cultures.
Answer: Happy to fill in some details on New Austin and Quasi. Let's start with the obvious. Like Prime, both cities are located on Terra III, an oxygen rich Super-Earth that was naturally habitable for Humans. Quasi is the planet's second largest city after Prime and located in the southern hemisphere in the shadow of the Nessay Mountains. Summers there are relatively cool and it gets more than 200 mm of snow per season. The city is a tourist destination in part due to the large and mysterious ancient ruins located nearby. Esperia founders the Ingstrom brothers grew up in Quasi and became fascinated with the ruins.
Meanwhile, New Austin is a smaller and more industrial city, though there's been a concerted effort to integrate factories into the natural environment instead of destroying it. Compared to Prime and Quasi, New Austin has more of a "blue collar" vibe with the city center's most famous landmark being the Old Hall where members of the United Resource Workers would meet. Generally less expensive than Terra's other major cities, New Austin has become an increasingly popular spot for people and companies to move to. The Sataball Territorial League has their headquarters there, and most famously, Jennifer Friskers moved the headquarters of Origin Jumpworks from Earth to New Austin in 2913. A move that still stings some Earth-centric forces, who some suspect were behind the hack of Origin in 2944 that released details of their "Goldfinch" ship prototype. Despite being smaller and less of a tourist destination than Prime and Quasi, New Austin still boasts impressive infrastructure and enough prestige to have hosted CitizenCon in 2948.
