Hi @lordgarrett99 -
We answered your question in this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/18574-Loremakers-Community-Questions).
Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: The Anvil Aerospace portfolio claims:
"The company has produced dozens of successful and iconic military spacecraft over the years, including the Hurricane, Osprey, Devastator, Hornet and Gladiator."
I have a few questions regarding the Osprey and the Devastator. Were these ships renamed, and if so what are their current names? What were the proposed classifications of these ships? Will players be able to buy/acquire these ships in-game, and if not why?
Answer: When world building we often include names of ships, items, people, places and other things that aren't an immediate focus for the lore or game. This flavor text enriches the world by creating a sense of history and mystery. Plus, having a few names like this sitting around helps when the Ship Team presents a new craft in need of one. In fact, that's exactly how the Hurricane got its name. While the Hornet and Gladiator were part of Anvil's original ship line-up, the Hurricane was not. When the Ship Team brought us the idea for an Anvil heavy fighter featuring six powerful ballistic guns, the Hurricane name fit perfectly.
The Osprey has already shown up in lore as part of a fleet of security ships in an episode of Lost Squad, a spectrum show focused on the fateful days before the fall of Caliban to the Vanduul in 2884. The call out is intentionally lean on specifics but the ship is being used by a security force and engaging hostiles, so there's a strong chance it's a fighter. However, the Devastator has not been mentioned outside of the Anvil portfolio. With all that said, we'll avoid getting into anything more specific, so the Osprey and Devastator names could be used if the right Anvil ship design presents itself in the future.
