Going forward will the reputation system be included with each profession?
Yes, if that profession has sufficient content in-game to support it.
It would seem Refueling and medical is more of a gameplay mechanic currently.
Those would (currently) fall under the "insufficient content" category. While we could put a rep in, right now it wouldn't have the amount of content that reps like Bounty Hunting or Security have (and those don't have anywhere near as much as we would like them to), so the tasks for setting up reps for Refueling or Medical professions are lower priority than other design tasks on our plate. For me personally, this the biggest factor at current in there not being a Medical or Refueling rep, but not the only one.
Is the teams task list too full when other professions or gameplay come online for the team to roll out reputation with the feature?
Limited bandwidth does factor in as part of that, yup. USPU is currently handling a pretty heavy workload with a relatively small team. We're fitting quick reputation tasks where we can, but they of course have to be balanced against things like implementing and maintaining Shops (including the new Selling feature), Service Beacons, Cargo,  Dynamic Events, the Player Trading App, various pieces of backend tech, etc.
Is reputation not in a mature enough state or is it because we are only in an alpha environment and you all want to test specifics?
Its definitely not a fully-matured system, and yes that is also a factor in not focusing on going too wide with the content (yet).
The incoming addition of reputation driving hostility (see March 3rd's ISC https://youtu.be/pMxm82KnrBY for more info) is a small step towards where it should be, but additional system expansions (such as reputation changes when you kill a member of an Org, an actual Perks system, etc.) would be preferred before we put dozens more Orgs and Reps in the game (to avoid building up data debt that we then need to go back and clean up later). That's not a hard rule by any means, but it all adds up into a priority decision.
Its all a balancing act, on a team, project, and company level.
TL;DR: Every major facet of the game should interact with a rep of one kind or another eventually. Many more reps are on the list, but are currently deprioritized, mostly while they wait for dependencies.
