The confusion in this thread is due to a missunderstanding of a point that might seem like splitting hairs from one perspective, but absolutely crucial from another...
To repeat my point, the performance (i.e. the frame rate), of the server does not directly effect the client performance. If you had an infinintely fast server that can run at one million FPS, your client FPS would be totally unaffected (but you'd get less lag). Conversley if your client PC was infintely fast then you too could run at a million FPS regardless of whether the server was running on a potato.
However, the obvious reason a server would run slow (other than if it were on slow hardware) is due to the load we place on it (e.g. entities count), and that load also has an indirect cost on the clients, and that's your correlation between the two.
In a perfect world the client would only recieved increased load when close to the areas causing the high load on the server (e.g. if you are near lots of other players), and for most systems is likely to be the case (and is 100% true for all rendering systems), however there are also likely to be some systems/costs that scale up even when far away (to use a really bad example, a chat service would scale based on player count, not locality... though I'm certainly not suggesting a chat system actually has any noticeable effect on FPS! :stuck_out_tongue: ). Any such costs that scale up regardless of distance are a major issue and something we obviously want to remove / limit / optimise and I'm sure other engineers are looking at those (outside of my area).
So if a server is under high load, then being near a hotspot is going to increase the load on your client, and being further away will decrease it, but as highlighted above you'll still probably have worse performance than when on an empty server. But this can be improved, and doesn't require the server to run faster, only that less systems place a load on the client. This confirms everything that you've all been saying above.
PS. a gentle reminder that I post here in my spare time to try and show appreciation for all you backers, lets place nicely :slightly_smiling_face:
Ali Brown
Director of Graphics Engineering Just a man on the internet
