Hi @Septaplex -
We answered your question in this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/18651-Loremakers-Community-Questions).
Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: I'm sure many can relate to wanting to live in a certain city/state/country and applying for jobs there, only to come up empty handed due to being one out of literally hundreds or even thousands of people applying to that same job. Which leads me to wonder if the Stanton corporations are much the same? Hurston probably not so much due to its bad reputation, but I could definitely see microTech & Crusader Industries only hiring the best of the best from across the ‘verse. Or what about Terra? I wouldn't be surprised if very few people can actually land a job in Prime or New Austin without knowing the right contacts on the inside.
Makes you wonder how the player characters are able to live in Orison from a lore perspective, considering that they're freelancers (pun intended) who start with only a simple spacesuit & 20k aUEC in their pockets.
Answer: The goal is to create a variety of locations throughout the 'verse. There will be aspirational locations, others run down and rugged, and many modulations in between. As you noted, this already exists in Stanton with the disparity between life on Hurston versus Crusader or microTech. As happens today, many people will want to live in aspirations locations, like Orison or Prime on Terra, but might not have the means. Others might be born and spend their whole life there but never have the means to take a trip offworld. These aspirational locations will definitely attract some of the best and brightest minds in the UEE, but also be filled with blue collar workers slinging coffee at Ellroy's or repairing ships at the landing zone. Ideally there would be tiered options on where players could stay to lean into the idea that one might work in a nice spot but not be able to afford top tier accommodations.
As for the lore around how players can live and work in such competitive systems, remember that players don't simply start with a spacesuit and some creds. They own a ship, which already elevates them to a special class. Most people in the UEE don't own a ship and would have to hop a commercial flight aboard a Genesis Starliner to travel between systems. Having a ship alone qualifies players for the wide range of jobs available through the mobiGlas. Also worth noting is that since Stanton is the only system currently represented in-game players have to set a "primary residence" there for inventory management purposes. But, while players may be storing all their stuff at a spot in Stanton for now, whether or not they live there is up to you. The planetside locations where players currently wake up are habs closer to hotel rooms than apartments, meaning short-term rentals over long-term leases. So think of setting your "primary residence" less as a commitment to living at that location but where your character will be basing their operations while trying to make it in the competitive and cutthroat Stanton system.
