Hi @Godwin -
We answered your question in this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/18651-Loremakers-Community-Questions).
Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: Messers bad, bad Messers! However, considering the length they ruled it stands to reason there were a few that weren't that bad... or is that not so? Which Messer was the best in hindsight? The most humane, implementing the most beneficial policies, or maybe just largely ignoring the empire leaving it to itself?
Answer: Fun question! You're right, it's easy to generalize the rulers of the Messer era as "bad" because many of their policies were authoritarian, anti-democratic, or even outright evil (looking at you Linton Messer XI and your decision to sell terraforming rights to Garron II without any regard for the sentient beings living there). While the broad "bad" brush is applied to rulers during the Messer regime, as each played a part in dismantling democracy and consolidating power within the family, some weren't as complicit and culpable as others. So who was the best of the worst?
First, a quick overview of the Messer era, which consisted of a 246 year reign occurring between 2546-2792. Officially, there were eleven Messer Imperators but only ten reigned, as Marius Messer IV received the title as an honorarium after dying in a tragic shuttle crash in 2641. Some believe that crash was orchestrated to bring Corsen Messer V to power and marks a major downturn in the history of the Messer regime. Once family members began fighting each other for power, which they would do consistently from there forward, it only encouraged the most brutish and ruthless members of the family to do what they must to become Imperator. So you could argue that the "best" Messer would have to come before that fateful crash in 2641.
From the field of Ivar Messer I, Deacon Messer III and Livia Messer III, our vote would go to Deacon, who ruled from 2592-2628. Deacon expanded Humanity's footprint in the universe by pouring funds into exploration and terraforming efforts. He increased taxes on the wealthy and lowered them for the poor and middle class. Deacon also guided the Empire through the chaos of the Second Tevarin War (2603-2610), though he believed the war proved the UEE needed one strong leader and used it as an excuse to implement more authoritarian measures. Another point for Deacon comes from the fact that he didn't covet power so much that he held onto it until the bitter end. In 2628, he abdicated to allow his daughter Livia to become Imperator, then spent his time as one of her top advisors and a tutor to his grandson Marius, whose death in the shuttle crash devastated him. Deacon retired from public life in 2643 and spent his remaining years with family until his death in 2661.
Anyone interested in more specifics about the Messer regime should check out #messer dynasty in the Galactapedia, which includes thirteen articles on prominent members of the family. There's a lot of interesting characteristics and intrigue woven into their personal stories, and it will be a ton of fun to enlighten and expand upon these rulers and their effect on the UEE in the future.
