Hi @Sorston -
We answered your question in this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/18651-Loremakers-Community-Questions).
Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: Since Star Citizen is in my opinion a very beautiful and atmospheric game, I can’t help wondering if horror segments/side stories will be a part of the game. Some scary or mysterious encounters of cosmic nature could be interesting. Is this something that the Narrative team is looking into?
Answer: We've already incorporated elements of cosmic horror into the lore in a number of ways. The very first issue of Jump Point featured the short story Whisperer in the Dark about an excursion into mysterious ruins in Hades system. Untold Tales chronicles strange encounters and phenomenon from across the 'verse, like a cryptic voice sometimes heard in abandoned mines on Pyro II. The holiday Day of the Vara, where celebrants dress in costumes and swap scary stories, sprouted from the mystery surrounding the disappearance of the exploration vessel Vara and rumors that its crew returns from the dead on that day to haunt other ships. There's also the chilling tale of Neville Lott, an infamous serial killer who went mad after witnessing the Vanduul slaughter his family.
Now, how does this get translated into the game? Well, these stories lean into situations players will find themselves in, like exploring a dark, drifting derelict or circuitous cave system. So knowing a little lore should enhance that gameplay experience. Was that sound a weird auditory effect when wind whips through this mine or could it by the Prophet of Pyro? A spooky environment, creepy audio effects, and good set dressings can go a long way to setting such a scene, so having such stories established can guide other teams towards specifics that play into what's established. And, who knows, potentially lead players in the know on some fun, scary adventures?
