Hi @Dowlphin -
We answered your question in this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/18651-Loremakers-Community-Questions).
Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: I am imagining this 'funny' phenomenon for the game lore: Not an organization of humans rejecting any dealings with other species, but an organization that consists of people of any other species who reject any dealings with specifically humans. Do you think such alien groups are out there?
Answer: One such group already exists, the Vanduul. All their dealing with Humans have made it quite clear that they want nothing to do with us (outside of stripping our worlds of resources). While Vanduul are the ultimate anti-Human group, other species would have segments of their population that also don't really like us, though thankfully not to the same extent as the Vanduul.
To begin, the Tevarin have been forced to deal with us ever since we overtook their homeworld and dissolved their empire. Many Tevarin may not be fond of us, but accept the reality of the situation. Still, there's a growing Tevarin settlement in Ne'er, Branaugh system, and since it's an unclaimed system those living there don't fall under UEE jurisdiction. While Humans can still visit it, the settlement is becoming a place where Tevarin can limit Human interference and influence, so it wouldn’t be too surprising if there were some vocally anti-Human groups there. Meanwhile, there are probably groups within the Xi'an Empire that don't want any dealings with Humans. Although their empire only recently opened up further thanks to the Human-Xi'an Trade Initiative (HuXa), Humanity still has limited access to the Xi'an Empire since first contact. This limited access to the Xi'an Empire means that there are clearly some within their government who haven’t forgotten Humanity’s bad behavior and are still advocating keeping them at arm’s length. With this setup, those who are anti-Human can easily avoid us, but there's an interesting area that could generate some anti-Human sentiment: Indra system. While Indra is part of the Xi'an Empire, its location as a former Perry Line system means that Humans are granted easy access to it. The system has turned into a key trading hub, and for Xi'an youth, a popular spot to immerse themselves in Human culture. If there are any vocal anti-Human groups, I could see them having a presence in Indra and attempting to convince young Xi'an to reject Human culture and ideals. Finally, the Banu are generally warm and welcoming of everyone so it would be hard to see a group of them banding together to avoid Humans. Maybe this happens on an individual level, but considering their general dispositions, I would hate to hear the stories about what would drive a Banu to avoid Humans outright.
