1 - Boost never added to rotational velocity, it only added to rotational acceleration, the max velocity with or without boost was always the same. The only thing that changed in 3.17 is that boost usage is now a bit more dynamic with rotational accelerations taken into account instead of having a minimum boost usage.
2 - Large ship turn rates: None of the rotation rates are fixed, with the changes that we're working on for later, we'll need to update every ship anyways. In general large ships will still be large ships.
3 - Capacitor gameplay is not done either, we're currently testing different approaches which are less regen-centric.
4 - Medium Fighters: Yes, but only after other changes have happened. We'll likely increase their weapon capacitors as mediums tend to have more and bigger weapons than light fighters.
5 - Shield Reinforcement: We're not really happy with certain specifics of the shield system and it's tasked up to do a bit of gameplay experiments with some changes.
6 - Shield damage thresholds: Same as 5
7 - Missiles are not really correctly tuned right now. We moved them over to IFCS2 a while ago and there were a few updates on the signature system which in turn is what missiles rely on. Additionally we fixed a lot of explosion handling bugs ... so frankly that were a lot of changes that affected missiles and we were not able to do a proper, deep balance pass for them yet (priorities). They are functional but they definitely have issues. E.g. their current behaviours of coming around again and again is not intended.
8 - No news on turret blades yet, but whenever they happen they will not be as effective as human players and using blades will likely come at a cost of other things. Concerning the balancing between players, we are not aiming to artificially balance the game so that 2 players in 1 ship are as effective as 2 players in 2 ships. Turrets are not ships, they have a different job to do and have only 2 degrees of freedom to deal with. If you want to rather bring a second ship instead of a crew member with you that is a valid player choice. Star Citizen is more than a space combat game for pilots. I know quite a few players who are playing the game but are not interested in piloting and rather want to play in auxiliary roles. If you have an org composed of only pilots then I think it would make more sense to bring a second ship. But I also think that if you bring a ship with only half a crew then you should not expect to reach its peak combat performance.
