Invictus Launch Week is almost upon us, and to help everyone get the most from the event, we want to answer a few common questions.
Read on for everything you need to know about Invictus, including where to go and how to participate in the upcoming Free Fly event.
What exactly is Invictus Launch Week?
Invictus Launch Week is an event held the last week of May that marks the beginning of the new recruiting year and the graduation of the latest class of officers and pilots of the United Empire of Earth Navy (UEEN). Though a time to honor those in the Navy and other armed forces for their tireless service to the UEE, aerospace and defense manufacturers across the galaxy also takes the opportunity to showcase their vehicles designed for (or influenced by) the military. It allows everyone to see some of Star Citizen's biggest, best, and most iconic ships up close as different manufacturers take over the expo center halls. Plus, almost everything on display is available to test fly for free!
When is Invictus Launch Week taking place?
Starting on May 20 through May 31, different ship manufacturers take over the halls for 48 hours.
What time does the event start?
Invictus Launch Week starts on May 20 at approximately 4 pm UTC (9 am Pacific).
When does the Free Fly start?
For new players specifically, the Free Fly will start on May 20 and end on May 31, simultaneously with the launch of Invictus Launch Week.
Where does the Invictus Launch Week take place? Where do I have to go?
The aerospace and defense manufacturers showcase their vehicles at the Vision Center, Orison, Crusader. You can also get a rare firsthand glimpse at the Navy's most fearsome destroyers, corvettes, and carriers as they make their way through Stanton and tour an in-service Javelin destroyer, the UEES War Hammer.
How do I get to the Vision Center?
First, you need to head to the planet Crusader. If this is your first visit to the Stanton System, you can directly spawn at the Greencircle Habitation building. If you're already a citizen of the 'verse, jump to Crusader, spline jump to Orison, then land at the August Dunlow Spaceport. From there, take the shuttle transit system via the Vision Center pick-up area.
How do I get to the Javelin tour?
During Invictus Launch Week, you can tour an in-service Javelin destroyer, the UEES War Hammer. As soon as you step onboard, you’ll feel the history of this iconic behemoth! The Javelin moves through Stanton, so citizens around the system will get their chance to enjoy the tour. Head to August Dunlow Spaceport on Orison, Everus Harbor above Hurston, Baijini Point above ArcCorp, and Port Tressler above microTech to join. To find out its current position, please see the info panels in one of the landing zones.
Where can I see the UEE fleet?
The Navy's most fearsome destroyers, corvettes, and carriers will make their way through Stanton in a fleet that's bigger and better than ever before. To find out their current position, please see the info panels in one of the landing zones:
I neither have a Star Citizen Game Package nor a spacecraft. How can I travel to Crusader and enjoy the Free Fly?
No worries, we got you covered! Invictus Launch Week is the ultimate time to test Star Citizen and the fancy military ships for free - for everyone! We provide every account with an Anvil C8X Pisces starter ship as a free loaner to get you to the event and back!
How do I rent a ship?
In the expo center halls, you'll find ships on display from different manufacturers throughout the event. If you see something, you'd like to test fly, walk up to it and press and hold the F key to open the inner thought menu. The ship will become highlighted, then left-click on the word RENT. Your mobiGlas will open. Then, confirm the rental by clicking RENT in the lower-right corner.
You can then head to the Space Port or any other ASOP terminal throughout the 'verse. The rented ship will be available for 48 hours.
How long can ships be rented?
You can rent ships as long as they are on display. All manufacturers exhibit their ships for 48 hours. Once you have rented a ship or vehicle, it will be available for 48 hours.
How many ships can be rented?
You can rent every flyable or drivable vehicle exhibited at Invictus Launch Week. Each ship or vehicle can be rented once. During the last 4 days of Invictus Launch Week, all ships will become rentable via the rental kiosks in the Drake hall.
What ships are available to fly for free?
Each day of Invictus Launch Week, there will be different ships available for you to test fly from the show floor. Check out the full schedule for details.
Do I need a copy of Star Citizen to enjoy Invictus Launch Week?
No. For the duration of the event, anyone can play Star Citizen for free. All you need to do is visit the Fly Now page and follow the instructions.
Can I invite a friend?
Of course! All they need to do is visit the Fly Now page, create an account, and jump into the game. Don't forget, using your referral code during account creation grants them an additional 5,000 UEC. And if they decide to stay after the Free Fly, you'll earn a referral point.
I am a new player. Where do I get more info?
The Welcome Hub presents various tutorials to help you get off on the right foot navigating the 'verse. Star Citizen veterans act as informal guides for an ever-growing number of new players in the Guide System. The Knowledge Base answers the most frequent questions in articles that cover everything from how to create an account to character equipment.
Is there a reward for attending Invictus Launch Week 2952?
Yes! If you attend Invictus Launch Week 2952 by logging into the Stanton system at least 5 days during the event, you'll be rewarded with a Spectrum badge.
Will there be Warbond CCUs available?
Yes! Check back each day throughout the event to see what's available. Each Warbond CCU will only be available for a 24-hour period.
Will there be quantity stock-limited ships?
Yes! Each stock-limited ship is limited to 1 per account and will be available in three waves to cover as many global time zones as possible. Please note that depending on your time zone, Wave 2 and 3 may occur the next calendar day.
- Wave 1: 4 pm UTC (9 am Pacific)
- Wave 2: 12 am UTC (5 pm Pacific)
- Wave 3: 8am UTC (1am Pacific)
- ILW Day 3 - May 22: Aegis Idris-P,  Aegis Javelin
- ILW Day 5 - May 24: RSI Constellation Phoenix
- ILW Day 9 - May 28: Drake Kraken, Drake Kraken Privateer
