## Update
Congratulations, @Silos851 (Cutlass), @PELCKI (BMM), @silverStar2021 (C2), and @SchroedingersRat (Caterpillar), the winners of our 'Battle of the Bricks' contest! We initially said we would select only three winners, but seeing all the fantastic entries to our contest, we just had to increase the number of prizewinners. And even then, this was a hard decision to make! An honorable mention also goes to LevelCap, who built a 4 feet long Javelin at a 1:400 scale!
We want to thank everyone who participated and helped make this contest a success. Don't forget to tune into our Twitch live stream on the 22nd of July, where we'll see members of our community team build EVE ships and EVE's community team build Star Citizen ships. Be sure to tune in to see who will walk away with the Battle of the Bricks crown!
The Battle of the Bricks is on! Our friends at EVE Online have accepted our challenge for a LEGO build-off. :muscle:
This means we're teaming up with EVE Online for the ultimate aerospace build-off, with epic prizes to win and a great cause to benefit. It's time to see who can come up with the best spaceship build from Star Citizen or EVE Online using LEGO bricks!
Players from the Star Citizen and EVE Online community are invited to create their very own LEGO spaceship creations using the spaceships found in both games. After the build-off, the winning entries will be featured on the CIG and CCP platforms and then later built by the community teams from each game during a live stream on July 22.
Between June 13 and June 27, everyone can submit their entry, following the guidelines below. :mag_right:
Our favorite three builds will win a standalone RSI Scorpius with LTI and also inform which ships the EVE Community Team will have to build on the July 22 live stream.
Get all the details about the Battle of the Bricks!
--
1. How to Enter: During the Entry Period, there will be two types of submissions which are eligible separately for prizes.
Digital Submission:
a) Using your imagination, build a LEGO SC or EVE Online creation
b) Create your submission in BrickLink
c) Save and send your submission file in an email to either communityteam@ccpgames.com for an EVE Online spaceship creation, or to communityteam@cloudimperiumgames.com for a Star Citizen creation.
d) In your email, please let us know which Star Citizen or EVE Online ship your submission reflects, how much time it took you to design it, how long you have been playing either or both games and if you want, attach a photo of yourself as well as your in game handle.
Photo submission:
a) Using your imagination, build a LEGO SC or EVE Online creation
b) Please take a picture of your creation
c) Complete your entry by tweeting your picture identifying which Star Citizen or EVE Online ship your submission reflects, with the hashtag #BattleoftheBricks or in an email to either communityteam@ccpgames.com for an EVE Online spaceship creation, or to communityteam@cloudimperiumgames.com for a Star Citizen creation.
2. Determination of Winner: Within five (5) days after the end of the Contest Duration, the Judges will select three (3) winning Entries from among the eligible Contest Entries for EVE Online and three (3) winning Entries from among the eligible Contest Entries for Star Citizen based on style, quality, originality, and rule adherence, and the winner will be the respective Participant submitting said Entry.
3. Prizes: Eligible Participants who submit winning Contest Entries as determined by the Judges will be awarded an in-game RSI Scorpius with complimentary in-game Lifetime Insurance policy on the RSI account with which they made the winning submission. Limit one prize per winner, even if the winning Participant submitted or participated in more than one winning Contest Entry.
4. Guidelines & Content Restrictions:
Guidelines:
- The submission should contain only your creation.
- Shoot any pictures preferably with natural daylight, and without flash in png, jpg or gif format.
- If the photo is too dark, it will be hard to see the details in your creation, and we may not be able to use it.
Content Restrictions:
- The picture must not include features of any person that would make it possible to identify the person.
- The picture cannot have been previously published or submitted in any competition of any kind.
- The picture must show only the Entrant’s creation.
- Entries must not show any product, trademark, or copyrighted property of any other person or business entity.
- The picture must not contain material that is inappropriate, indecent, obscene, hateful, tortious, defamatory, slanderous, or libelous.
5. Additional Rules
- If you are the Winner, you agree that CIG and CCP Games may use your Entry in promotional material for related events
- Any Entry made or attempted in a manner which in the reasonable opinion is contrary to the spirit of these Official Rules, or by its nature is unfair to other Entrants, will be invalid and may result in your disqualification from the build-off.
- It is not allowed to modify materials used in the creation in any way or use any outside substances such as but not limited to glue to assemble pieces which would not naturally be able to be assembled.
6. Miscellaneous and General Terms
RSI, CPP, Star Citizen, EVE Online, and these contests are not affiliated with BrickLink or LEGO, and no sponsorship or endorsement by either is expressed or implied. RSI and CCP are not responsible for and provide no warranty with regard to content, applications, or software available through BrickLInk or LEGO. BrickLink and LEGO are property of their respective owners.
The above overview indicates rules and guidelines common to each game’s Contest. The full Rules for RSI’s contest are located here (“RSI Rules”) and incorporated herein by reference. In the event of any conflict or inconsistency between this Overview and RSI Rules, the RSI rules take precedence.
--
All that's left is for you to pick a ship and get building! For any EVE Online players reading: of course, you are allowed to build a Star Citizen ship if you want!
Are you looking for some inspiration? Over the years, we’ve seen some fantastic custom LEGO EVE ships, some of which you can check out below, or on the community hub.
Ready to build your favorite vehicle? We’re looking forward to seeing your "Spaceship, Spaceship, Spaceship!" :rocket:
