Hey @BuckyTin ,
Wanted to give some quick additional info that I left out of the ISC episode. I’ve gotten the thumbs up to post some early concept images from when design on this UI first started, which should hopefully give an idea of where we are generally heading. They are attached below. My apologies for both the greybox visuals (think of this as rough sketches on a napkin while we explored designs, not actual art concepts) and how much I’ve had to redact (there were some portions that show unapproved designs).
Some of you have already partially guessed this, but the ship in the middle is indeed intended for displaying your cargo loading. In addition, underneath the ship is a space we have reserved for handling loading data and details. We felt this visual was important for future features that we’ve talked about in past broadcasts (such as NPC loading, mass distribution impacting your flying, and cargo that impacts other cargo (don’t put radioactive things next to plants and such)).
What the hell Ben, why weren’t these in the ISC concepts you showed?
The concepts we showed in ISC are representative of what we are working on putting in the game for 3.18. While we will tweak and improve once we’ve got a working prototype, these are the things that we, with a fair amount of confidence, expect to be able to do in the time we have (Unexpected development snags are always a possibility). The items shown in these early concepts were cut from this release due to lack of developer bandwidth.
The ship loading visual, for example, was cut months ago, barely a week into the concept phase. The conversation boiled down to:
“We think this is very important and will take this UI from ok to good.”
“Agreed, how long will it take?”
“It will delay Persistent Streaming and every feature dependent on it by at least an additional couple of months.”
“No.”
“Yeah, we figured.”
There were similar cuts due to time and priority, such as displaying price/supply history when you expand a commodity (Building Blocks doesn’t support the necessary graphs natively and we don’t record that data yet), displaying what other locations will buy/sell (the team has been pushing to make a dedicated mobiglas app for this for years), and loading timers (general engineering bandwidth). They’re designed, but sadly the team just doesn’t have the headcount (or dependencies from other teams) to action on them right now.
We explored ways to scale implementation time down (see the image with the wireframe view of the caterpillar and simplified cargo bay visuals below) or replace the ship temporarily (showing the commodity you have selected like you mentioned). Nothing quite fit in the schedule (to give you an idea, we are having to steal an engineer from another team for this interface, and we only get him for about 20 days).
To be 100% clear, these additional features are still planned, the team is just balancing work on various features and intends to return to this. We needed to update the kiosk for the Cargo Refactor anyway, and we took the opportunity to squeeze as many immediately impactful improvements (showing commodities that are currently hidden in the kiosk, displaying demand, etc.) as we could fit into the schedule without temporary work that we would need to undo later.
TL;DR: The ship (or storage locker, or backpack) in the middle is intended for future functionality. Its a bit awkward right now that 1/3rd of the screen is taken up by temporarily irrelevant objects, but we had to cut some pieces of the design that would otherwise fill the space while the team is spread a bit thin on features. This will hopefully save us some time when we are allowed to come back and take the next step to make these objects relevant to the purpose of the Commodity Kiosk.
