Salutations, bartenders!
Our annual food-creation contest has returned for this year's Alien Week, with a (lemon) twist! This time, we're challenging you to make your very best alien-inspired beverages!
Whether trying to balance the biki ndzotayu (The Nine Tastes) of the Banu, making something bold or spicy for the Xi'an, or simply making a cocktail inspired by your favorite aliens from the 'verse, we want to see your recipes!
Try your hand at creating a beverage, alcoholic or not, inspired by our favorite aliens of the 'verse for a chance to win some out-of-this-world prizes! Your submission must be in the form of a comment in the submission thread and must include a picture of your alien-themed beverage, the drink's name, your username, and the recipe and instructions to make it!
Our esteemed panel of judges will be selecting three winners based on the following criteria:
- Originality
- Quality
- Creativity
- Rule adherence
- Tastiness
KEEP IN MIND:
- You must include a photo of your drink with your username in the picture (see example below)
- Drink must be a cocktail with at least two ingredients
- Originality is the biggest factor in determining the winners
- Non-alcoholic beverages are accepted and encouraged!
Make sure you read the Contest Rules before submitting your entry!
All entries must be submitted to the Submission Thread.
Prizes for the winners are as follows:
:first_place_medal: 1st Place: Standalone Esperia Prowler in-game ship with LTI (in-game lifetime insurance) and Harmony Paint
:second_place_medal: 2nd Place: Standalone Banu Defender in-game ship with LTI (in-game lifetime insurance) and Harmony Paint
:third_place_medal: 3rd Place: Standalone Esperia Talon in-game ship with LTI (in-game lifetime insurance) and Harmony Paint
Submissions will close on June 27, 2022 at 11:59 PM PDT, so be sure to get your entry in by then.
We'll be assembling an Alien themed e-cook book at the end with everyone's recipes and pictures so you can try your hand at the galaxy's tastiest treats.
______
Here's an example of what your comment should look like.
Banu Aviation
"She may not look like much, but she's got it where it counts, kid."
Recipe
2 oz dry gin
0.75 oz lemon juice
0.5 oz maraschino liqueur
0.25 oz simple or demerara syrup (double this if drink is too tart)
0.25 oz Crème de violette
0.25 oz elderflower liqueur
Shake with ice. Double strain into a coupe glass. Garnish with two lemon twists and two maraschino cherries (if you can make them vaguely look like a Banu Defender, even better!)
## UPDATE: Congrats to our winning beverages!
This was an extremely difficult list to narrow down! Shoutouts to all of the amazing drinks! Butterfly Pea Flower was definitely a theme for many (I too enjoy watching it change color :smile: ), and the presentation on the majority of submisisons was incredible. I also got to try the majority of these, and can confirm you all belong behind the bar! All in all, we narrowed it down to a list of finalists that we'll be posting in an official "Bar Book" soon, and have also chosen three winners:
:first_place_medal: First Place: @Deadpull - Hadanite Heat
:second_place_medal: Second Place: @BonusContent - Adaptation
:third_place_medal: Third Place: @Big_Beverage - Signature Sling
