Thanks for the prompt feedback! I showed the folks in ACFT this thread in todays scrum and thought I'd share some of what we discussed:
HUD Visibility Issues: This is brought up quite often internally and while I personally don't play a part in the art/design of the map I heavily lean on the side that we should not be changing maps/environments to suit the UI, the UI should be improved to suit the many environments it can find itself in; such is the purpose of AC, to push these kinds of issues. Part of Dying Star's "gameplay" is flying off towards the star or thick fog using the environment to your advantage but I agree and it's very clear from feedback that the map is suffering a bit too much from visibility issues. I've tasked up Design to do a review of the map, to ensure we're happy with it and if we can tone it down. We're unlikely to do more than that as again I'd rather push on improvements to the UI as even as you mentioned this is not a problem specific to AC, the PU suffers from it.
Tossing around of ship by invisible forces: We and the vehicle team are aware of this. I'll chase it up! ^^
Broken Moon Asteroid Collision Issues: Thanks for calling this out, our QA also encountered this this week, we'll look into it!
Leaderboard/Score Exploiting: Hot topic internally! And yes we agree. I'm going to be looking into ways to improve this later this year.
Private Lobbies: I am still actively working on this. I can only apologise for it taking so long as outside of forming the new team I have to refactor quite a few core systems and also rely on assist from the networking teams who have been swamped with Persistent Entity Streaming/Server Meshing. They won't be returning for 3.18 but I'm hopeful for soon after; we'll communicate it out when it's closer to being complete so folks can organize tournaments/org battles.
AC Squads limited to 4: This has been resolved in my feature stream and will release same time as private lobbies.
Love the feedback, keep it coming! We've got a really passionate team within ACFT and we're pushing hard to improve life across AC/SM! Every bit of feedback is greatly appreciated. :heart:
