Hello everyone,
As mentioned in this thread (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/spectrum/community/SC/forum/1/thread/alpha-3-17-2-update), we have worked with our teams to distribute a generous amount of aUEC based on the number of hours played during Alpha 3.17.1 to make the database wipe that came with the Alpha 3.17.2 release a bit less painful.
As some of you have already suspected, there was an error in the calculations, and the amount of aUEC distributed ended up being higher than planned and was not intentional. Our formula actually suffered from two errors – overcounting playtime and inflating payouts per playtime minute – that compounded the error, resulting in vastly overinflated numbers that were higher than we intended by more than a factor of 10. We’re now rolling out a correction to this and you should see this reflected in your in-game wallets shortly. This may introduce some discrepancies with aUEC earned right at the beginning of the Siege of Orison, but rest assured that those who logged in between the start of the event and this adjustment will receive the payout for the event.
Rather than performing another wipe and reset for the Live servers, which would cause a service disruption, we’re able to rectify funds in player wallets by performing an update on the server side. Additionally, if you’ve spent the aUEC you received between the launch of 3.17.2 and now, you’ll most likely get to keep those purchases (provided you spent a reasonable amount). If you happened to gift some or all of your stipend to another player, in most cases, some or all of your gift will be removed. Also, as we audit accounts after resetting the stipend, if we find accounts that have excessive numbers of purchases well beyond our original intent, we may remove what we deem to be excessive ship ownership. So if you went on a buying spree to acquire 5 Hammerheads, you may find 4 of them gone the next time you log in.
This will be felt most acutely by players with the highest amount of time spent in 3.17.1, as we’re implementing a curve that tapers off the amount of aUEC earned as the amount of play time increases. The majority of players will still see a substantial amount of aUEC given, definitely enough to gear yourselves out with a full set of armor, weapons, or even a ground vehicle to prepare to take on our next set of dynamic events!
For example, a player who played for 20 hours prior to the wipe will find they have enough of a stipend to equip themselves with armor and weapons to take on Nine Tails in the Siege, and still have enough to grab a Dragonfly or Cyclone to raid Jumptown. And a player who has played 100 hours before the wipe will have enough to immediately get an Avenger Titan, giving you a solid start to your 3.17.2 adventures. This is the kind of advantage we intended to give to players with our stipend award: enough to reward your previous efforts in 3.17.1 and give you a head start in earning more, not enough to immediately acquire a 10-ship fleet before your first bounty mission.
We greatly appreciate your patience and apologize sincerely for any inconvenience this may cause. See you all in the ‘verse!
