Hey @gratian,
I'll try to explain the state of the customization for the ship components and why seemingly "nothing" has changed in the last year:
When we introduced the archetype tuning (which included streamline all component sizes) it allowed to reset the tuning of all components. The game had quite drastically changed over the years and a lot of moving parts (like ship item balance) couldn't really keep up over time. Streamlining all components was a necessary evil to regain control over the balance in the game. It also allowed us to get rid of a lot of balance offenders, like shield generators that were just better than others without having meaningful downsides (and remember we want pros and cons for every ship item).
At the moment that state (lets call it the archetype state) is still what we have because our current focus has NOT been on polishing the PU but on getting the core flight and combat experience in a better shape for the future PU and SQ42. That might sound like not much but it is a huge task containing drastic changes. It will also dictate a lot of changes for the components and their balance numbers. Staying in the archetype state for components allows us to iterate faster.
Here is a somewhat simplified recent example: We're trying out variations combat gameplay where the power triangle assignment has less effects on the shield regen but acts stronger on the resistance to minimize the need for micro-adjusting during combat. If we had a lot of shield generator variances it would mean that in order to test this out we'd need to update the game data of all of our 60 something shield generators. That's a lot of files to adjust and we'd need to do that for every iteration. Instead we rather deal with only 5 shield archetypes (1 for each size) until we figured out what kind of core changes we want. Creating variations is a follow-up task which should be done once we're happy with the core gameplay loop.
A similar situation exists for weapons. We've known for a while what kinds of properties we want the vehicle weapons to have (we have a big Excel sheet that lists which weapon is supposedly good against X or Y). We could spend a couple weeks to get the weapon data updated to get all the variation. However we also know that the above mentioned other changes will inevitably require a rebalance of application numbers, velocities, fire rates, etc. So instead of updating all items at once and needing to maintain them over every release we opted for the approach of reducing the complexity for the time being as it is more managable.
As to why it has been more than a year: That's just the reality on how long design and engineering can take. Our above mentioned focus was actually established shortly after 3.14 and a good chunk of VFT's work that happened since then hasn't seen the eye of the public yet. You may read the monthly reports to get a few glimpses but that is as much as I can say at this point.
Anyways, to sum it up ... this all does of course not mean that the variations will not come back. Of course they will come back ... just like you we want meaningful variations with pros and cons, etc. But we have to pick the right time to minimize costs and impacts on the rest of the project. And that time is not now. So the archetype state will have to prevail a bit longer until those bigger things are resolved.
I hope it makes sense.
