Hi! @Tyrosian
Thanks for the question and suggestion.  Let me try to give some insights into the whole bug fixing adventure.
First, let me say that It's a fair question to ask about "When".  And myself being a long time backer, it's also a question I ask myself often too (still waiting on a few ships I pledged for way back when).  But there are reasons why we are extremely hesitant to commit to an exact release date.
First, it's about managing expectations. Because we work in a very dynamic environment where items are constantly being re-evaluated and where discoveries are made, our estimations of release dates are also changing along side that.  I'd rather not give a date and risk disapointing and instead reinforce that we're aware and commited to get it fixed as soon as able.  This way, people know it's on our radar and we avoid disapointing by missing an estimated release date that we had to change.
I also want to add that when we look at bugs and how to prioritze them, it's very difficult to deliver bug fixes that pleases everyone.  For many orgs founders, getting the org ranks issue fixed is the top priority.  But for other backers/players, maybe fixing the "embed media in reply" is a more pressing issue.  So it's very hard to please everyone at the same time since we cannot fix all bugs simultaneously and, sometimes, some bugs are dependant on other bugs being fixed first. (Or we might decide not to fix a bug because we know we will overhaul a system and update it - not saying this is coming for Orgs yet).
It's also important to mention that bugs have an "investigation" time period attached to them where the team works at identifying what is creating the bug in the first place (root cause) and make a plan on how to fix it and test that plan out. As you can guess, it's very hard to put a number on "how long" an investigation might take.
Second, and this is my attempt at giving more insights in what I mean by "dynamic environment", we have to work on fixing bugs alongside delivering on our team's mandate. It's quite a tricky balancing act. We want to make sure that we dedicate ressources (and time) to fixing issues and also that we are still able to move our mandate forward and progress on it with regular iterations. We have to prioritize those different bugs and items related to our team's mandate, ensure we have the proper ressources engaged and then give them the time they need to complete them.  Sometimes it means we have more time to work on bugs and sometimes we need to focus more on the team's mandate.  (Mandate = the project we are currently developing.  For the team I'm attached to, it's the new iteration of the Community Hub that's been mentioned on the last monhtly report and that I hope the community will love).
So, all in all, where like anyone I'd love to have an exact date to see something fixed or delivered (looking at you Polaris), the best we can do really is to acknowledge that we are aware of X,Y,Z issues.  That it's on our radar.  That we will tackle them and bring them to resolution because it matters to us and that we will do that as smart as we can.  And that we will use any opportunities that comes along to do quick fixes when we can.
I know it's not a bug fix I'm giving you today.  But hopefully this will help in having a better idea of why some bugs takes months to get resolved sometimes as opposed to days and why we are shy about giving specific dates.
Cheers and happy gaming!
