Hi @Lady_Skye -
We answered your question in this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link//18848-Loremakers-Community-Questions)
Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Questions: I'm interested in the lore behind the medics and doctors of Star Citizen's verse, as we all know the verse is a cold, and dangerous world where death lurks around every corner. It's only natural for hospital staff and paramedics to be up-armored or even more respected right? Are they paid better than we would consider today? What's the EMS system look like and are there any prominent individuals that pioneered emergency medicine for the future?
Answer: Medicine occupies a really important place in both the 'verse and in Star Citizen's gameplay. However, aspects of this topic - like how much medics and doctors earn - have more to do with design than lore. We'll leave that side of things to the design team. As for the lore...
The portfolio on the Brentworth Care Centers offers some insight here. The answer is ultimately quite simple. First, most well-equipped hospitals are in larger cities and space stations which have safety fail safes in place to mitigate danger. Threats to the medical infrastructure of those areas would elicit an immediate response from the governing authority. Second, seeing hospital staff in armor would likely distress patients, undermining any medical organizations' efforts to comfort their patients.
Of course, in a place where violent crime is rampant like Grim HEX, you would probably expect that the doctors and medical staff would have more weapons and armor on display (or easily accessible).
Next, you also asked about paramedics and Emergency Medical Services. There are many different kinds of emergency medical service providers in the 'verse. Some of them work for planetary governments, others for individual hospitals, and the rest - the vast majority of such groups - are private companies that provide different specialties and/or zones of operation. For example, Rijora Rescue, a Tevarin volunteer organization providing free medical service to Tevarin communities around the 'verse and using their efforts to help renew a sense of cultural pride and identity amidst their diaspora.
Emergency medical responders arm and armor themselves differently based on a number of factors including their company and location of operation. Some are more specialized paramedics, but there’s much more to "emergency response" than just medical treatment! In the broader field of Search & Rescue, responders need the skills and gear to address and overcome many different disaster scenarios. As a result, they are far more likely to carry armor and weapons, along with multi-tools, fire extinguishers, and other more specific pieces of equipment, depending on the nature of the beacon they are responding to.
Lastly, you asked about notable individuals in the field of medicine. We'd be remiss not to mention Doctors Diyo Nikolas and Ted Santos who founded BiotiCorp; the cutting-edge medical manufacturer responsible for the creation of the Calliope Machine. Now used widely throughout the UEE, it can efficiently perform massive bioreconstructive surgery that would have previously taken a team of surgeons multiple operations. The device is so effective, it's even been adopted for cosmetic surgeries. Plus, as mentioned in an early question, there is also Dr. Ibrahim who changed the universe with his work on regeneration.
So, there you have it. Medicine is always evolving, with new technologies rapidly challenging our understanding of what it means to live in the 'verse.
