Hi @HVC-MrMazza -
We answered your question in this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link//18848-Loremakers-Community-Questions)
Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: Will the Galactapedia have more categorized entries for the flora of the verse?
I've seen in one or two entries mentions of Genus and Family when talking about species. I'm more curious about plant life on some of the moons, such as Amberdeen, Daymar ect. These plants are looking to be evolved to angiosperm levels of complexity while being in a non Earth life atmosphere. I mean photosynthesis can happen with little to no O2 in the air, in our current knowledge you mainly need co2, water and UV rays.
Just wondering if there is basically a Botany lore goal for how deep it will go?
Answer: Plant lore generally comes in two phases. When a new world goes into production, the Narrative team will do an initial pass to outline some flora that highlights the uniqueness of the planet and also focuses on collectables that may be of value to Players when they have a chance to explore. These help to inspire the Concept and Art teams who go on to create these assets and many more as development progresses.  Once the Art team creates the final assets, the Narrative team will then go through and provide additional lore. The environment the plant lives in and what it looks like will inform the direction in which we develop the lore. For example, if the planet the plant is on was terraformed as in the Kavische’s case, we decide where the plant came from and how it got on the terraformed planet. If the plant is dark red or black, we might decide it came from a planet with a dim M-type star. If the plant is blue, we might decide it came from a planet with an F-type bright star. If there isn't any carbon dioxide for the plant to absorb, we may say that it evolved to consume nitrogen compounds instead. There are a lot of other factors to consider, like availability of water, the overall temperature, does anything eat it, how might it have evolved to ward off predators, etc. In a nutshell, we adapt the lore of a plant to how the plant is used in the game.
As far as taxonomic classification goes, we're comfortable giving a genus and species for some of the plants, but prefer not to go higher in taxonomic rank than that. If we were to create a whole expansive classification system all the way up to the domain for each planet with naturally-occuring life, things would get very out of hand very fast. We'd also need to get much, much better at Greek and Latin because unfortunately none of us majored in Classics.
