Hi @Halkenguard -
We answered your question in this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link//18848-Loremakers-Community-Questions)
Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: I've been curious for a while whether there has been any discussions about making ships that are not "state of the art?" Surely lore-wise there was a time when ships did not have artificial gravity regardless of thrust direction, or possibly ships that were not designed for QT that have been retrofitted with quantum drives.
We have plenty of people in our current timeline who choose either out of necessity or for nostalgia to drive older vehicles. Some upgrade them to run like newer vehicles, others keep them as true to the original as possible. I'm certain there would be people in the SC universe who would choose to do the same with ships.
Answer: Lore is littered with references to ships that would no longer be considered "state of the art" in the current UEE. From the Zeus, the first commercially available spacecraft, to the 2783 Retaliator still coveted by Bomber Boys, to the extensive classic ship collection Silas Koerner has stashed in a massive underground museum in Bremen, we've established a number of older ships and a culture of collectors that would want to preserve them in their original condition. That said, adding such a ship to the game poses a number of potential issues that would require solutions and support from many teams other than Narrative.
To begin, what ships get prioritized in the pipeline is mainly a decision for the Vehicle team and Chris Roberts. Narrative is here to support and provide lore around the selected ships, and if an older "classic" ship would happen to be on their list, then we would probably suggest one from the backlog of established ships. Still, selecting an older ship would create issues for the Vehicle team, which has been able to refine and ramp up their pipeline thanks to them honing in on the specific look and shape language of each manufacturer. Yet designing a ship made by a manufacturer centuries earlier would require them to explore what that brand would've looked like then. For example, Ford cars manufactured in the 1950s definitely have a distinct and different feel than their current ones. We would want that reality reflected in-game too, because otherwise what's the point of making an older ship if it’s essentially similar to their current offerings. So this becomes more of a time commitment for the Vehicle team as they reimagine a brand's look and build out any new assets needed to achieve it. There's also a wealth of design and gameplay issues to consider. Would "modern" components and capacitors be able to work with the ship, and if not how hard would it be for it to find replacements? Would the Zeus, which was built prior to Humanity discovering modern shield technology from the Tevarin, really not have defensive shields or weapons, which weren't standard on ships until the Second Tevarin War? And how much fun would that be for players flying a Zeus if it's common knowledge the ship is an easy kill?
Meanwhile, on the Narrative side, there would probably be laws set by the UEE to ensure all registered ships have some basic safety features that might've been absent from earlier vessels. Much like Esperia's take on alien ships, I wouldn't be surprised if an older ship makes it into the game that it gets framed as an updated version that embodies the look and spirit of the classic ship but with all the modern conveniences. The true classic, original ships would be so rare in the UEE that only the uber-wealthy, like Silas Koerner, could get their hands on one, and they would only be allowed to fly it under very strict conditions at events like the IAE.
