Hi @Xiren -
We answered your question in this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link//18848-Loremakers-Community-Questions)
Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: I know Nyx is still a ways out, but do we have any preliminary thoughts on gang and syndicate names for the region?
Answer: One of the interesting challenges when looking at this system is trying to figure out how to make it feel distinct from other lawless systems like Pyro. We're still working with Design to figure out the exact number of gangs that will be needed in Nyx, but here's a sneak peek at one that we've been talking about.
The Moraine are an organization of thieves and smugglers based out of the Glaciem Ring. Too aggressive to be welcomed into the ranks of the People's Alliance, the Moraine believe that it is their right to steal from the rich and powerful who have benefited from widespread corruption. They use the profits from their criminal activity to finance their organization and create the life they feel they deserve.
One of the things that distinguishes the Moraine from other gangs is their intense loyalty to each other, even at the expense of personal enrichment. The first tenet of the Moraine’s code is: "All for the Family". In everything they do, the "found family" that the Moraine have gathered must come first. They never steal from each other and will treat the life/well-being of a fellow gang member over any reward.
Their commitment to family is so deep that the Moraine even build and maintain settlements around the Glaciem Ring. Some of these are used as dead drops in their smuggling endeavors, others are safe havens for the families of the active members within the Moraine. Although this can be viewed as a sign that the Moraine are more sympathetic, others believe that it’s a way to keep tighter control on their members as a potential traitor’s family is within easy reach of the organization and would pay the price on the traitor's behalf.
