Hi @Traghera -
We answered your question in this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link//18848-Loremakers-Community-Questions)
Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: Given the similarities between the in-lore empire and the Roman Empire, what are the most grandiose constructions of the reigns of the Imperators? Did something like Hadrian's wall, the Pantheon, etc get built during this time? Why is the lore so oddly absent of architectural majesty? Do any plans exist to create parallels to these wondrous monuments in-game?
Specifically the pre-modern era, before the Messers fell. It seems odd to me that a bunch of megalomaniac, paranoid autocrats wouldn't create huge monuments to themselves, their power, or the glory of mankind/the empire. Even more odd, the few works of wonder that we do know of (The Ark, Synthworld) are either created under a more decentralized power structure, or otherwise (Lorville, ArcCorp) under a non-governmental, company-driven, profit-driven initiative.
Answer: Interesting question with a lot to unpack. Let's start broad and then focus on specifics. First, in the project's early days, Narrative created a broad timeline of architectural movements covering Humanity's expansion into space until the era of the game. Each style was given a Narrative framework to justify its existence and look, like the development of Hennowism around 2580 with its austere and defensive bunker aesthetic following Humanity's first war with the Tevarin. We intentionally kept these movements broad and loosely defined so they would direct and inspire the Art team while still allowing plenty of leeway for them to work their magic. So, to answer your question about the lore's being "oddly absent of architectural majesty," one reason would be that if we get too specific then we'll be constraining the Art and Environment team. We have weaved in some general architectural era call outs for a few locations, like Sherman in Castra containing the Monumentalist architecture style started by Imperator Corsen Messer V to be imposing and a symbol of the Empire’s immense power over the individual. While we’ve drawn these distinctions there's still plenty of freedom to explore what looks and feels right for a location when it comes time to tackle it.
That said, there are specific grandiose construction projects called out in lore from the Messer era. Yet, the two most prominent ones no longer exist. The first being the Empire’s Light Conversion Center on Charon III. This massive network of maximum security prisons housed political dissidents during the Messer era and was razed by the UEE following the downfall of the regime. The other well-known grandiose construction was Khanos Stadium in Angeli, Croshaw system. A vanity project for Ulysses Messer X that drove him to drain UEE coffers and steeply raise taxes to pay for it. The construction of Khanos Stadium created increased resentment against the regime and eventually drove the children of Ulysses Messer X to stage a coup that also destroyed the stadium during its grand opening. There's also the question of how many Messer era constructions would still survive in their original form. Buildings may still be there but many monuments to the Messers might not have survived the revolution. Deciding what's still there, and in what form, will be a fun aspect of world building with the Art team going forward.
The two most obvious wonderous monuments in-game, which you mentioned, are from the current era simply because we want players to visit them, and even help deliver supplies for one's construction. Of course, these locations are Synthworld, the UEE’s attempt to construct a planet, and The Ark, a repository for all the universe's knowledge, and their construction has been spun in lore as an attempt by the UEE to prove that Humanity could still come together as one to achieve ultra-ambitious goals. ArcCorp would definitely also be considered a wonder by some, and while yes it was built by a private entity, they’re also the de facto government of the planet, so would have the authority to streamline the ambitious construction undertaken there. ArcCorp also rents out most of the planet’s offices and production facilities, so while the planet-encompassing city would have been expensive to build, they clearly saw it as an investment that would constantly generate profits for them.
