Hi @IShaftoeI -
We answered your question in this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link//18848-Loremakers-Community-Questions)
Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: I have some questions regarding the UNE and UPE flags recently released as part of the Subscriber Desk Flag set. I figured the interlocking rings mean unity, but is that all there is to it, as far as SC lore is concerned? Why did the UNE choose exactly 3 (not 5 or more) interlocking rings? What made that choice so solid that the UPE chose to keep it (albeit making it 4 rings) after so many years? Why didn't the UEE flag keep the rings, and instead used its acronym as its centerpiece? Finally, is the aforementioned interlocking rings symbol still used in the UEE or has it been completely phased out?
Answer: The design for the UNE and UPE flags is a great example of how teams collaborate. It was also a task the Narrative team pushed for because defining the flags and symbols of previous iterations of Human government would create a visual language that could be added to locations, props, or other assets to hint at its age.
Now, the UEE flag was designed years ago so we already had a general look and some symbols as inspiration. Since the transition between various forms of government (UNE to UPE to UEE) was peaceful, we wanted to represent this process as evolutionary not reactionary by ensuring the colors and/or symbols persisted between the flags. Each flag would honor what came before while also adapting new elements to represent the ideals of the new government. Ideas like this and further guidance that contextualized the flags, along with general suggestions for what the UNE and UPE could look like, were compiled by Narrative in a document and passed along to the Props teams, who then worked on and implemented the design. Once the flags were done, Narrative came back into the process to do a pass on the name and description strings used in-game when interacting with the desk flag set. Some of the symbolism you asked about was addressed in those descriptions but other aspects weren't touched upon, so let's dig into it here.
The three interlocking rings on the UNE flag are meant to symbolize unity between Humanity's three main population centers (Earth, Mars, and Croshaw system) when the first unified government formed. The three rings being retained for the UPE flag paid homage to this while also adding a larger ring around the three interlocking ones to represent the wider universe that had since been discovered and brought into the UPE. Another circle with breaks in the four cardinal directions was also added outside that largest ring as a symbol of the UPE's intention to keep expanding in every direction. That brings us to the UEE flag, which retained the two outer circles in its design but dropped the three interlocking rings and replaced it with UEE. This can be read as an acknowledgement that the Empire had become something much bigger than those first three population centers. The three interlocking rings symbol was phased out with the creation of the UEE, so seeing it somewhere should be a hint that the item is centuries old. Players that like to loot might even see these symbols on some interesting items recently added to the game.
