Hi @Yelmurc -
We answered your question in this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link//18848-Loremakers-Community-Questions)
Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: Since regeneration slowly deteriorates the body each time you die. Wouldn't it deteriorate the brain. People could start to become less rational and paranoid or other side effects after each regeneration. It could get to the point where their brains won't let them take care of themselves and you have instances where people say something like "don't worry about Bob, he's just had one too many regenerations."
Answer: You’re absolutely right! Bob could be in a lot of trouble. Regeneration technology is still quite new to the verse and not without issues. The question of how regeneration impacts the brain is particularly interesting!
If you want to learn more about regeneration technology, I recommend you read the foundational Death of a Spaceman post to learn about some of the underpinning thinking behind the ongoing design of this system. If you're looking for a short glossary of regeneration-related terminology, as well as a primer on the history of this unprecedented technology, the Loremakers' Guide to Regeneration is another post worth reading.
To summarize though, regeneration tech as we know it is fundamentally a synthesis of alien technology and human ingenuity. Even before gaining access to the Vanduul biogenetic scanning technology that would pave the way for the creation of the Ibrahim Sphere, Dr. Aka Ibrahim was passionate about finding a way to repair brain functionality for patients who had suffered some sort of mental loss or trauma.
While the Ibrahim Sphere has changed the meaning of life and death in the verse, there are still serious consequences to both mental and physical injuries and afflictions.
In order to benefit from an Ibrahim Sphere a person must have an imprint made. As a holistic record of an individual person, these imprints also register the body's age and preexisting mental and physical trauma. So, as a person undergoes subsequent regenerations, they still suffer from all the normal consequences of aging, along with the degenerative changes that can accompany it, as well as suffering from additional complicating factors such as traumatic response echos (TREs) that can permanently alter an imprint and gradually lead to its degradation - only hastening the body's natural degeneration. Not only that, but people who don't imprint frequently enough may suffer gaps in their memory upon regenerating, as in the Hazy Days short story featured in February's Jump Point.
As game development continues we hope that we will be able to represent these side effects of the process in-game, whether with cybernetic limbs or other physical indicators. Every regeneration brings you closer to suffering a permanent death, but fame and fortune are still out there for the taking.
