I am not worried, because we work very closely with the Player Experience Team which tracks, filters and expands on player feedback and realigns us if necessary. They (and some other teams) provide internal flight, PVE and PVP experts (they played Star Citizen way before they got into the company) which we're using to run gameplay tests and iterate. We meet with them at least twice a week within our internal combat group. I am reasonably confident about our progress as the internal feedback is pretty positive (so far). It's ofc impossible to please everyone, so we'll see how it will hold up with the normal player base later. But still, my experience tells me that it still won't perfect on the first try and will require iteration after the initial release.
Concerning pre-gameplay feedback: I am always very cautious about feedback that is given without actually playing the game. Hover mode is an interesting example here, because a pure description would not have showed up the issues it ultimately had. Today I'd like to think the problem was not the core mode itself but rather the lack of appropriate UI and flight assists ... it was simply too early to be released but you couldn't have judged it without playing it (as a side note, hover mode was still a very successful project for us as it was not a big investment and we learned a lot from it (see gravlev), and it ultimately improved our delivery quality). I have similar thoughts for pure gameplay design descriptions. Their value is rather limited until you actually get around to prototype and try them out. Playing is always key.
But ultimately what we show to players at what time is not up to VFT. Seeing the thread numbers rise, I just popped over to let everybody know that we understand the points, know now about the issues (and frankly we do agree) and that we are working on resolving them. But handing out details about yet to be announced changes is not happening in an arbitrary Spectrum dev post. There are more suitable formats for that.
