@1ch0, within our group of combat devs our priority is not on polishing the current (aka PU) combat experience but to get the future combat experience into a good shape. Working on both at the same time is absolutely the definition of slowing us down. Time is by far the most rare resource we have as developers and we want to minimize the amount of redundant work. To answer to your question, there is no "as of now" state for a lot of our post-3.14 work as it is simply not ready to work with the full PU yet.
The thought comes to mind, why not just port things over into the PU? Every single additional ticket we currently do for the current PU combat experience (be it tweaking the acceleration of a ship or some bullet numbers on a weapon) might not individually mean much but they absolutely add up hours and sometimes days for our team members because data or code changes need to be are reviewed (and potentially reworked) before they are submitted to the release branch. And quite often after that changes need to manually merged back to dev streams which in turn can cause merge conflicts which then need to be resolved which is also a time intense-process (as we have a lot of dev streams to handle). That all takes up valuable time which eats into the actual work we want to do. In addition our internal dev versions are much further ahead and large chunks of new code or data are often incompatible with older versions. It's just a lot of stuff to port over. The main 3.17. release stream e.g. was branched out almost at the beginning of the year while the rest of the game dev streams went ahead. That's a very long time for software to change.
I am not making excuses here at all, I am just describing what kind of challenges we have when it comes to balance our time. We simply don't have enough resources (that means trained and effective team members) to develop and support / maintain multiple combat experiences fully at the same time. Like in almost every other job on this planet you get most out of your time by setting a proper focus. And that's what we're trying to do.
