@Sader,
we don't really consider the Ares variants different ships. Both platforms have similar purposes and they both employ an oversized gun that is meant to cause trouble for larger targets.
The fixed assist values of all weapons will soon be reviewed as we are currently working on updates for the aiming & gunnery systems. However that does not mean that the Ares weapons (or any S7+ weapon) gets fixed assist back.
We originally added the fixed assist to guarantee hits on platforms that are meant to be employed against fast maneuvering targets in close proximity as dogfighting is too fast to allow for precise manual aim. That is not at all a requirement for combating large ships though. Hammerheads, Constellations or A2s are too slow to effectively evade incoming fire from S7 guns, it is quite easy to hit them. So to put it quite frankly, they do not need the kind of aim assisting that you need in fast paced dogfighting. However the initial release of the Ares (granted with mostly the Ion) had a lot of success in that regime ... killing light fighters due to the strong FA. That was not intended for the ship so we removed FA from all S7s guns (plus we consider them too big to be effectively employed against small maneuvering targets anyways) and afterwards the Ares was performing much more akin to its intended role.
Going forward that does not mean that it will stay that way but we will be very cautious about bringing FA back on large guns and to what extend due to the lessons learned with the initial Ares release. Looking at the current progress of the aiming & gunnery updates we will likely introduce a progressive reduction of FA once you go beyond S4 guns ... so it is possible that S7s will get a bit of FA back. We'll see about this when we're a little further ahead with our work and testing. Right now I don't have an ETA on this though.
Just a bit of other side news for you Ares lovers ... we identified a small issue in its flight model, some of the jerk values are wrong which makes the ship oversteering too much. We'll try to get this fixed for 3.18.
