HI @DaphneJones,
We haven't delved too deeply into the specifics about how Banu slavery works, but I'll answer the best I can.
Question 1: Since the Banu have paid to acquire their slave, it's in their best interest to make sure that the slave is able to produce. Otherwise, it's just a waste of money. And they're not a fan of that.
Question 2: No, slavery is not permanent. It's like indentured servitude. A slave can eventually buy their freedom. After which point, it probably wouldn't be unlikely that the Souli that initially purchased them would make them an offer to employ them. Now, it's possible that the debt owed is so massive that it's effectively permanent, but I think that would be on a case-by-case basis.
Question 3: These are the ones where we haven't quite figured out yet. I would imagine that they wouldn't necessarily have money, as their pay is transferred over to the Souli that owns them. However, since the Souli is invested in their well-being, housing and food would probably be provided (and taken out of their wages).
I suppose a Banu could sell his slave to Vanduul for dinner...
As for the killing someone else's slave, I don't think it would be as simple as paying them off. You've destroyed an asset of their business, so there's more to it than just reimbursing them for what they've paid. Again, this is something we haven't really gotten into yet, so this might totally change once we drill down more thoroughly into the culture, but to me, it feels like the Banu don't view their slaves as property or things. They still consider them people, just ones who have unfortunately been entered into this arrangement (unfortunate for the slave, it's a great deal for the Souli). Again, the Banu sell their children to Evaluation Guilds who ascertain their skills/aptitude and then sell them to other Guilds for training and apprenticeship, so everyone has to earn their freedom in some way. The bigger question that we'll tackle is 'what is the difference (if any) between an apprentice and a slave?'
Anyway, again, this is still pretty loose since we haven't really fleshed this out yet, but I hope it helps,
Dave
