This is totally fair feedback. As a passionate MMO addict (I play them all), I'm a big fan of collecting rares. In fact, my favorite form of progression is item based. Browsing my bank, recounting adventures, and enjoying the memories of yesterday's spoils. For example, I'm still proud of my OG Runescape account which houses legendary rares, such as a set of bunny ears I looted from an exclusive Easter event in 2003. A moment in time captured, and a great conversation starter in-game (i.e. "what was it like back then?").
The original Vanduul mask event was actually designed by the Community team, not the designers like it should have been. We didn't have an "achievement" system, but we were so eager to provide in-game earnables for our community, we found a workaround way to do it without needing to pull development off their current tasks.
We came up with the 50-kill criteria to unlock the mask. The game didn't have the functionality and wasn't set up for an event like this, but as I mentioned above, to avoid distracting development, we simply worked with the data analysis team to capture player activity and manually run a script to award the Vanduul mask to anyone who had achieved the 50 kills.
This was sloppy. It meant no in-game notification or tracking of your progress in getting the 50 kills. It meant no user interface to alert you if you had achieved the reward. It also meant that you had to wait for your prize until we ran the script at the end of the event.
In hindsight, I wish we had not done this event. I do not consider it successful. It really came down to my eagerness to provide in-game earnables and forcing it into existence, when it should have been driven by development with proper in-game support, which it is now. Our developers have some seriously fantastic plans related to in-game discoverables/earnables, and fully understand the importance of being able to collect/earn rare items, armor, weapons, etc.
There will be those epic moments when you see another player's adornment and it represents their achievements. You may think "woah, they must have killed X to get that helmet!" or "wow they must have explored X to have found that!"
In short, the original Vanduul mask event was not a good representation of the future of in-game earnables. It was a premature attempt (my fault). The development team has far more exciting and complex plans when it comes to looting, and I'm really excited to share more when we can.
