Leaving this thread open so I can comment on the recent leaks.
We know that with each patch there will be leaks, and most of the time, we're fully aware of exactly what content will be datamined, and when. Speculation based on datamining is rarely ever an issue. And we like seeing people getting excited about what’s coming. It’s great to see that enthusiasm.
But the dark side of the leaks is sometimes things get out that were never meant to see the light of day. Sure, if a greybox image of a near-final ship leaks, and that ship is just about to release, we turn the other cheek. But leaking outdated, proprietary work info that will never happen? That’s not cool.
This week, a member of our team leaked materials by releasing pictures of internal PowerPoint decks. This is far different than datamining a test build we willingly put out there, and far more negatively impactful. An action like this only comes from someone who has no respect for their peers, the project, or the community. In this case, the leakers spread some misinformation – incorrect info that was never meant to be more than a few ideas dreamed up months ago and since changed. But because the leakers threw actual CIG work materials out onto the internet, these leakers have now created unrealistic expectations in some members of the community. And it sucks that we, CIG, will end up disappointing those people this IAE because of it.
Believe it or not, we appreciate that you guys love the project so much you are hungrily gobbling up leaks. While it’s not ideal, and we hate having surprises ruined, we know it’s a fact of life for entertainment IPs that are as passionately followed as Star Citizen. But just as common in the entertainment industry is for devs to talk about things that get delayed and sometimes never happen. And we’re bummed that mixed amongst some of the cool, accurate leaks of this week were some inaccurate ones based on obsolete PowerPoint decks.
I almost didn't comment. Doing so only revives the discussion, and casts a brighter spotlight on the leaks. But when I realized there would be disappointment due to misinformation, I had to jump in to set expectations. Separately, I'd be remiss if I didn't share with you how much these things hurt morale, especially for the ship developers who have had the intended reveal of their work stripped from them. Having had to persuade a developer that their work isn't "ruined" in these types of situations, I can tell you first-hand that these types of leaks suck. The silver lining is we're really glad to see people digging the ships. But we are bummed that we're going to disappoint some of you because some of the leaks just aren't going to happen.
