The Intergalactic Aerospace Expo (IAE) 2952 kicks off November 18, and to help you get the most from the biggest ship show in the galaxy, we’ve answered the community’s most pressing questions.
Keep reading for everything you need to know about this year's Drake-sponsored show, including where to go and how to take part in the upcoming Free Fly event.
What is the IAE?
The Intergalactic Aerospace Exposition (IAE) is the universe’s premier spaceship convention. It provides everyone with the opportunity to see some of Star Citizen's biggest, best, and most iconic ships and ground vehicles up close, as different manufacturers take over the halls each day. Plus, almost everything on display is available to test-fly for free!
When is the IAE taking place?
From Friday, November 18, through November 30, each day a different ship manufacturer takes over the halls of the convention center for 48 hours each.
What time does the event start?
The IAE opens its gates on November 18 at 4pm UTC / 8am Pacific.
When does the Free Fly start?
The Free Fly starts with the IAE on November 18 at 4pm UTC / 8am Pacific.
I don't have a Star Citizen game package or in-game spacecraft. How do I travel to microTech for the event?
For the duration of IAE, every account has access to an RSI Aurora MR ship. After getting started, head to the nearest ASOP ship retrieval terminal to access it.
Where does the IAE take place? Where do I have to go?
IAE 2952 takes place at the Tobin Convention Centre, in the city of New Babbage, on the planet microTech.
How do I get to the Tobin Expo Center?
First, head to the planet microTech. If this is your first visit to the Stanton system, you can choose to spawn at the New Babbage Aspire Grand by selecting it as your primary residence.
If you're already a citizen, travel to microTech, spline jump to New Babbage, then land at the Interstellar Spaceport. From there, take the Metro transit system and get off at the Tobin Expo Centre. No matter where you board the train, you'll eventually arrive at the correct stop.
How do I rent a ship?
The IAE displays ships from different manufacturers throughout the event. If you see something you'd like to test-fly, walk up to it and press and hold the F key to open the Inner Thought menu. The ship will become highlighted, then left-click on the word RENT. Your mobiGlass will open. Then, confirm the rental by clicking RENT in the lower-right corner.
You can then head to the Space Port or any other ASOP terminal throughout the 'verse. The rented ship will be available for 48 hours.
How long can ships be rented?
You can rent ships and vehicles as long as they are on display at the IAE. All manufacturers exhibit their crafts for 48 hours. Check the IAE 2952 Schedule to see which ships can be viewed and rented on which days.
How many vehicles can be rented?
You can rent every flyable or drivable vehicle exhibited at the IAE. Each ship or vehicle can be rented once.
Which ships will be free to rent during the different manufacturer days?
Check the IAE 2952 Schedule to see which ships can be viewed and rented on which days.
Do I need to have a copy of Star Citizen to visit IAE?
No. For the duration of the event, anyone can play Star Citizen for free. All you need to do is visit the Fly Now page and follow the instructions.
Will there be a reward if I visit IAE?
Of course! Anyone who visits a ship manufacturer's exhibition in the expo hall will receive an IAE 2952 Spectrum badge of that manufacturer on display. For example, if you visit Drake's exhibit on November 18, you will receive a Drake IAE 2952 Spectrum badge after the IAE to brag about your visit to the show.
On days when several exhibitors share a hall, you will receive a badge from one of those exhibitors.
And for all passionate collectors among you: if you attend most of the manufacturer exhibition days, you will get an additional IAE 2952 badge at the end of the show. So in total, there are ten badges to collect.
Can I invite a friend?
Of course! All they need to do is visit the Fly Now page, create an account, and jump into the game. Don't forget, using your referral code during account creation grants them an additional 5,000 UEC. And, if they decide to stay after the Free Fly, you'll earn a referral point.
Which ships get the Best in Show paints?
All four ships that made it into the semi-finals of the recent Ship Showdown 2952 event (Anvil Carrack, Crusader Mercury, RSI Scorpius, Anvil C8X Pisces) will receive a limited-edition paint option as well as a manufacturer challenge coin. These are available to all players with these ships in their web-hangar. The overall winner, the Anvil Carrack, will be immortalized as a collectible in-game ship model. You can already take an early look at the rewards.
If you already have one of these ships, you'll receive the IAE-exclusive paint (and extra items) on the last day of the event at no cost. To be eligible to receive the paints, the ships need to be in your hangar (having them in your Buyback List won't grant you the Best in Show paints). Everyone pledging for a Best in Show ship during the IAE will receive the paint and items, too.
While all Pisces pilots will receive the paint during IAE, only the C8X will allow the paint to be applied. We do fully intend to allow the paint to be applicable to all Pisces variants in a subsequent patch (3.18). Separately, please note that the Carrack paint will work with the Standard Carrack AND the Carrack Expedition.
The Best in Show ships will also be available to fly for free between November 27 and November 30.
Will there be Warbond CCUs available?
Yes. Check back each day throughout the expo to see what's available. Each Warbond CCU Daily Deal will run for 24 hours only. However, this year’s Finale (November 27, 4p,m UTC - November 30, 8pm UTC) will include a refresh with new Warbond CCUs that will feature only at this time for select manufacturers, replacing the prior daily deal ones.
Will there be quantity stock-limited ships?
Yes! Each stock-limited ship is limited to one per account and will be available in three waves to cover as many global time zones as possible:
Wave 1: 4pm UTC (16:00)/ 8am Pacific Time Zone
Wave 2: 12am UTC (00:00) / 4pm the day before in Pacific Time Zone
Wave 3: 8am UTC (08:00)/ 12am Pacific Time Zone
IAE Day 1 - November 18: Drake Kraken (Warbond & Store Credit), Drake Kraken Privateer (Warbond & Store Credit),
IAE Day 2 - November 19: Origin 890 Jump (Warbond & Store Credit)
IAE Day 3 - November 20: Aegis Idris P (Warbond & Store Credit), Aegis Javelin (Warbond & Store Credit)
IAE Day 6 - November 23: Consolidated Outland Pioneer (Warbond & Store Credit)
IAE Day 8 - November 25: MISC Hull E (Store Credit)
IAE Day 9 - November 26: Constellation Phoenix (Store Credit)
Do you have additional questions? Ask them and we will do our best to answer them. And all newcomers to the 'verse should check out the New Players Guide as it guides you through your first steps into the Persistent Universe. Also if you are interested in the many attractions New Babbage has to offer, take a close look at the Traveler’s Guide.
