Hi @Septaplex -
We answered your question in this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/19026-Loremakers-Community-Questions)
Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: In a recent Galactapedia article about Vega, it was mentioned that due to the system being on the frontlines of the Vanduul War it has developed some unique artistic subcultures. Aremis for example has a thing for fine dining & molecular gastronomy, while Selene has a strong absurdist art scene, especially pieces with a theme of existential dread or the folly of war.
I found the latter pretty interesting, since I had always imagined Selene to be one of the most neo-Messer planets in the UEE, being home to Kastak Arms and various militias who are actively taking part in the Vanduul War effort. But the fact that absurdist art based on the folly of war is popular there seems to imply that many of the populace is either opposed to the Vanduul War, or otherwise blames the UEE Navy for putting their home world in jeopardy by choosing to escalate with the Vanduul.
Is this discrepancy the result of the divide between Citizens & Civilians in the UEE? Namely, that those who call most of the shots when it comes to planetary politics are Citizens who likely earned their Citizenship through participating in the Vanduul War in some form, while the ordinary Civilians who could not or would not leave Vega once the Vanduul were at the doorstep are struggling with feelings of powerlessness?
Answer: Interesting take on what's inspiring the ascendant absurdist art scene on Selene (Vega III). It's definitely partially an expression of powerlessness against larger forces completely out of their control, but other forces are also at play. For example, despite the planet being home to Kastak Arms and many who support aggressive actions against the Vanduul, the art scene proves that Selene has a strong counterculture scene that doesn’t share those views. While the Citizen and Civilian divide you mentioned probably plays a part for some, there are certainly other factors inspiring it too.
First, in the wider scope of history, Selene has experienced both extreme highs and lows. The Vega system was discovered in 2402, so Humanity has over 500 years of history with the planet. Selene was the cultural heart of the system for centuries and prospered under the Messers, while Aremis (Vega II) remained primarily a military outpost. But the increasing Vanduul threat scared people away from the system and many who stayed, or moved there recently, decided to settle on Aremis due to the strong military presence. This led to Selene suffering from a slumping economy and brain drain as people fled the planet. Yet these tough times did make the planet a more affordable destination, which would've attracted artists who then developed the absurdist art style now popular there. In addition, Titus, Selene's capital, is filled with abandoned and half-finished buildings, so there's plenty of space for large art studios and galleries. Finally, Vega became a destination for many of the refugees fleeing Vanduul invasions of Orion, Tiber, and Virgil. The horrors and existential dread of such an experience still resonates through the generations and helped foster an attitude and ideology that allowed such an art style to take root.
