Hi @WheeledWriter -
We answered your question in this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/19026-Loremakers-Community-Questions)
Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: I saw an interesting video that pointed out that Pyro has been overbuilt and the system no longer matches its lore. Instead of being lifeless hell holes blasted by pulsar-like radiation, the planets are now life-bearing, water-bearing, and habitable. The same video pointed out that the rework of Lorville feels much too prosperous for the dictatorship oligarchy of the Hurstons. Frankly, the existing lore matches the current city much better. Any rework should spread the city out into squat, ugly, soul breaking shapes with the HD building looming over it all like a menacing, watching, giant overseer, rather than being built into a glittering modern, if dark, cityscape. Is there a reason Pyro & Lorville doesn't match the old lore?
Answer: Simply, game development is extremely collaborative and Narrative is but one piece of the puzzle. While the process often begins with our team providing particulars on a location, character or other aspect of the game, we know that's not where the conversation ends but where the collaboration begins. In addition, the open development process provides greater insight into how things get constantly iterated upon and refined. For example, Narrative descriptions of planets or moons that alluded to their resources "being picked clean'' were written prior to the development of tech that would allow players to fully explore planets. That wording was chosen to explain why people don't (or couldn't) go to certain locations, but that had to change once they were. We adjust the lore when we can but other times we have to retcon it to make it work. As with Stanton, whose discovery date was pushed back and the linked Galactic Guide updated with a note specifying that changes were made, what ends up in game will be what's official and the lore around modified to match.
That's the high-level explanation for why adjustments were made to Pyro. Meanwhile, the changes coming to Lorville are more subtle, and an example of how we provide the broad strokes on something so there's room for other teams to iterate. The Hurston Dynamics building lording over Lorville is definitely a striking image that captures the company’s essence, but the changes to the skyline still fit within the overall lore for the company and planet. Despite their devastating environmental policies and cruel labor practices, the family (and company) would still want to project wealth and power to those who visit. They want to impress guests, entice potential executives and laborers to the planet, and even prove to others that strong, authoritarian leadership can produce such prosperity and wealth.
