Hi @Toaster -
We answered your question in this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/19026-Loremakers-Community-Questions)
Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: While looking around for an old Comm Link detailing some party planets, I found Cassel (Goss II) and Reisse (Rhetor III) and it got me thinking. Where would you settle down if you had to choose one place and why? Sometimes you gotta let your hair down and party to get the taste of burnt pirate out of your mouth.
Answer:
Adam Wieser (Writer): Reisse, Rhetor system feels totally my speed. First, it's the heart of higher education within the Empire, so it awash in culturally significant institutions constantly invigorated by a youthful spirit. Plus, only being connected to UEE systems means I'll get advanced warnings if trouble is on the way. Finally, the system also has an epic multi-colored gas giant in its outer reaches for when I went to escape society and soak up something astoundingly beautiful.
Cherie Heiberg (Archivist and Associate Writer): Since someone whose name begins with W and ends with ill already stole my answer, I think I'd enjoy living in Saisei in the Centauri system. I'd love living on a planet that has cities with solarpunk vibes, and I'm very interested in the music scene, especially what I imagine S-pop to sound like.
Dave Haddock (Narrative Director): I’d be curious to check out Port Conrad on Armitage in the Orion system. Sure you'd have to dodge Vanduul clans passing through the system, but I'm just excited to see how it gets visualized.
Jeremy Melloul (Writer II):  I could imagine myself on a number of planets, but the one I'm leaning towards right now is Terra! The system is probably Humanity's most important cultural center (sorry Earth) and would be an incredible vantage point from which to experience this future universe. Plus, it's a beautiful planet that's been able to avoid repeating the mistakes we've made on our homeworld. On Terra, nature and civilization exist in harmony. That sounds like a dream! I also think the nerd in me would quite love settling in Quasi, specifically. Those massive ancient ruins would be fascinating and I could see myself daydreaming about their origins regularly.
Matthew Thompson (Narrative Designer I): I really struggled with this (ask me again in 6 months and I'll probably give you a different answer) but every time I think about where I'd actually want to live in the PU it'd probably be microTech. There's lots of cool places I'd love to visit like Mars in the Sol system for the history, the Hades system for the mystery of it, the Tayac system for the Ark library, and the Synthworld in the Chronos system. But if I actually had to live anywhere in the PU, I think you can't really go wrong with the snow city with the kind of tech culture someone like me would really find themselves at home in. It also helps that some of those mountain ranges and forests are absolutely stunning and as someone who would love to see Antarctica one day and is known to daydream about having somewhere out in the middle of nowhere to themselves... microTech really does tick a lot of boxes.
Tung Thanh Cao (Narrative Designer I): I'll definitely live on the floating platform of Orison. I've always wanted to live in the cloud. Plus, Orison is just one of the most beautiful city I've been to in Star Citizen.
William Weissbaum (Lead Writer): While my answer changes regularly, right now I'm feeling like spending time in the Goss System. Just looking at how stunning our current locations are in the Stanton System, I cannot wait to see what the art team will be able to do when challenged specifically with making one of the top tourist destinations in the empire.
