Hi @Gatorcookie -
We answered your question in this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/19026-Loremakers-Community-Questions)
Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: Why did the Messer's never decide to invade the decentralized and weaker Banu? The Messers could have used the war as a way to garner popular support and use the spoils of war to enrich themselves and the empire, ultimately extending the life expectancy of their reign.
Answer: Since the Messer's were obsessed with consolidating and retaining power, they must've determined that invading the Banu Protectorate worked against those goals. First, justifying a war against the one species Humanity had a good relationship with from first contact would be a tough sell to the Empire. Humans and Banu had over a hundred years of shared history before Ivar Messer came to power, so it would take a lot of propaganda to convince people that this mostly peaceful, trading-obsessed species deserved to be conquered. Meanwhile, first encounters with other alien species (Tevarin, Xi'an, and Vanduul) were all contentious, making them more natural enemies of the Empire.
Besides the difficulties in convincing the masses of the need for such a war, a high-level look at the wider universe and political trends of the Messer era hints at other deterrents to an invasion. The regime rose to power under Ivar Messer in 2546 between the First Tevarin War (2541-2546) and the Second Tevarin War (2603-2610), and 16 years after the contentious first contact with the Xi'an. Being actively engaged in a war against one species while maintaining a fragile cold war with another seems like a good reason to not push an aggressive action on the Banu. In the decades after the Second Tevarin War, the Messer family fought amongst themselves for control of the regime. With their eyes turned toward internal enemies, it's not a surprise that they didn't look for others in the wider universe. Then, in 2681, the Vanduul made their presence known. The UEE struggled under their constant attacks and ceded several systems to the Vanduul. Leaving them unable to protect one side of the empire and still worried about the Xi'an threat on the other. The Messer regime remained in a pinch between those two species for the rest of their reign, and increasingly had to focus on measures to keep their own empire in order. Opening a third front against the Banu must not have seemed like a good idea while already overwhelmed by those other issues.
Finally, there isn’t much to support the idea that the Banu would necessarily be a ‘weak’ opponent. Though they tend to push towards diplomacy whenever possible, they would probably be surprisingly effective if pushed into a military conflict. While their government is decentralized, they do have the capacity and ability to unify against an external threat.
