## UPDATE
Our winners have been crowned! Thank you for all the incredible submissions, and congratulations to the winners!
:first_place_medal: 1st Place: @Illusive-man-TC
:second_place_medal: 2nd Place: @104Boost
:third_place_medal: 3rd Place: @MrTrash
The victors will receive their prizes in the next few days.
We appreciate your festive spirit and joyous holiday creations!
The season of giving is upon us, which means it’s also the season of receiving! If you’ve gathered a haul of holiday gifts, this is your chance to show them off; the more, the merrier! This could include cargo holds overflowing with gifts, a secret base stuffed with holiday loot, or a festive holiday hoard tucked away in a remote or unlikely location. Anything goes, providing your hoard of gifts makes your rivals jealous and fills us with the holiday spirit!
Take your very best screenshot displaying your festive treasure trove of holiday gift boxes for the chance at one of these incredible prizes:
:first_place_medal: 1st Place: Standalone Aegis Reclaimer in-game ship with LTI (in-game lifetime insurance)
:second_place_medal: 2nd Place: Standalone Drake Corsair in-game ship with LTI (in-game lifetime insurance)
:third_place_medal: 3rd Place: Standalone Argo RAFT in-game ship with LTI (in-game lifetime insurance)
Submit your screenshot either on the Spectrum submission thread or on Twitter using both #StarCitizen and #HappyHolidays by January 3 at 11:59 Pacific Time for the chance to win.
Some things to keep in mind for this contest:
Be sure to read the Contest Rules.
Only one submission per participant. Group submissions are not allowed. A screenshot may feature multiple players but only the participant who submits the screenshot is eligible to win a prize.
The screenshot must feature one or more gift boxes from the in-game holiday mission. Greater quantities of boxes, creativity in the location and box placement, and festive decorations for your haul are
all encouraged, but there is no minimum quantity of boxes or specific location required.
Screenshots must be unaltered - no post-processing allowed.
Good luck, and Happy Luminalia!
