Currently in the PTU we have the option to change the renderer with the r_gen12 0 1 or 2 commands. 0 being no Gen12, 1 being the 'hybrid' state of the renderer in 3.17.4, and 2 being full Gen12. Is the legacy rendering pipeline totally offline (in terms of performance) when r_gen12 is set to 2, or is there still a performance drain from including options 0 and 1? In other words, can we expect another performance increase when the r_gen12 command is eventually removed, or is that performance improvement already present?
There is still a performance drain although it should be fairly minimal. Getting rid of the legacy code is much more important for our efficiency, since we no longer have to fix bugs and maintain two different systems. It's a huge relief that we can remove the legacy renderer fairly soon.
Are there plans in the short term for visual improvements to the cloud rendering? They still have the visual artifacts that make the clouds look like small dots in certain circumstances. I think I remember reading somewhere that Gen12 can fix that, but I'm not totally sure.
Gen12 has nothing to do with the clouds. Carsten our Technical Director who owns this system is still doing some R&D on it. His newest improvements to the system are still not yet ready. But i'm sure it'll come :slightly_smiling_face:
Is there any limit to how many planetary atmospheres can render at the same time in Gen12? For instance, standing on Daymar and looking at Crusader, could we soon see the true appearance of Crusader with its volumetric clouds as opposed to the long distance LOD appearance? For clarification, see pictures below (true "white cloud" variant vs LOD "bacon ball" variant).
Yes there is a limit of one at the moment. Rendering more than one atmospheres is just not a good tradeoff for the performance it costs. I would rather say we should update the Distant-Planet proxy to look nicer and closer to it's real shaded planet.
And lastly, this isn't a question, but a heartfelt thank you for everything you do Silvan. You and your team's progress and efforts are noticed and appreciated every single day. The community is very lucky to have you
Thanks :wink: I will forward it to the team. We appreciate all your input as well.
