That goal has not changed but the devil is a bit in the details and depends what "indistinguishable" really means (damage application, flight behavior, AI situational awareness, etc.?). In general AI units pilot the same ships with the same equipment and capabilities and restrictions that player ships have and when AI ships fight against AI ships they adhere to the same rules as players.
Things however become a bit more complex when it comes player vs AI interactions. In those case we often need what I would call control measures to shape interesting encounters, and the damage modifiers are just one example of that (having AI pilots restrictions on their capabilities would be another example). But which of these control measures are used and to what extend is in the hands of the individual designers of the scenario.
As an example: About two or three weeks ago Diego asked me to fight against his new AI algorithms in a S42 Gladius (master mode tuning, no modifiers, 2x S3 repeaters and 1x S3 Gatling on gimbals (N-1 removed)) in a 1v1. Without any of the normal modifiers I was basically not match for it. The AI was very aggressive, extremely good with its distance control and never took any breaks ... my capacitor systems tired out very fast as I was constantly trying to dodge incoming salvos. I barely landed shots without getting damaged myself so I lost that fight. That is a feeling is something that upper ranked PVP pilots might know pretty well (and thrive on) ... but for an low skilled PVE player (who just wants to complete a mission) that scenario might also have been nothing but frustrating. And this is why control measures are so important because they allow to easily tweak the challenge level of a scenario. On paper that might miss the mark of being completely "indistinguishable" from real players but let's not forget that at the end of the day we're trying to create a fun game and there are more things out there that can create believability than just weapon damage numbers. Hope that makes sense :slightly_smiling_face:
