o tue” xuan ti po s.ya’u. (Let's have fun with these (ideas)!)
Please allow me to comment on the syntax and some of the context of these slang terms listed above from a Xi’an grammatical and cultural context perspective. I mean no offense. The lessons on these features of the language are not out yet, so here's a sneak peek.
e ta’kya ateyā — I might phrase this as: te sā yā .u ta’kya (It would be more pleasing drunk) or te sā yā yō ta’kya (It would be more pleasing to be drinking (with he goal of getting drunk)) or te huā .u ko ta’kya (it's best when drunk, meaning that you would enjoy whatever it is most if you were already drunk). ateyā (in the dictionary) refers specifically to a concrete THING that you select or choose (like the chocolate ice cream instead of the vanilla) Many words that begin with the sound a in mid-neutral pitch are concrete THINGS that you can hold in your hands or touch. This idea of "being drunk" is more about an abstraction. e xuan pota’kya. "Being-drunk is fun." e xuan yā po o ta’kya. "It's more fun to drink (alcohol)." e xuan huā po e ta’kya. "It's most fun to be drunk." po refers to abstract ideas or situations whereas a means a very specific tangible thing. The most concise way to express "I'd rather be drunk" is probably just te yā pota’kya. = Being-drunk is more pleasing.
e’e .ay'o .u hua’ua ngisath — I would produce the meaning given as e’e ki’a hua’ua ngisath y.a’u. The Xi’an would most likely stick ki’a in the sentence after the verb (as a clarifying particle) because a joke (an act of speech) and a design are very different things. It's a metaphorical analogy, so best to use ki’a.
yen uo’a yon uōng — I'd probably express this as uo’a (.u) yuai (e) uōng and just drop out both .u and  e since this is slang. uōng generically refers to "going to the bathroom.” Since the Xi’an eat, and are humanoids, I'm pretty sure they use toilets. :wink: If you needed to say "urine" that would be chuiuōng and "excrement" would likely be auong (when one's digestive system is in good working order). :wink:
yu’aoa’u.ii & yu’at.o’a’r.u — These words is interesting because the yu’a have a specific role in Xi’an society. The upcoming document will explain more. The Xi’an would probably find it hard to imagine a Human labeled as a yu’a, but as slang, this is GREAT. And, it would likely stimulate very interesting conversations with them. :slightly_smiling_face:
