Hi @JamieWolf -
We answered your question in this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/19191-Loremakers-Community-Questions). Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: I’m curious to hear from the Narrative team on the effects that regeneration has on a society. I was trying to think how such a fundamental shift would affect society, since many of our longstanding laws and morals would be deeply challenged by the fact that death is no longer final.
Would execution as a punishment even exist? Would murder be as heavily punished as it is now? It would seem that in general, people would value life less as death would not be final. Assuming a person imprinted before a dangerous mission, non-traumatic suicide (i.e. cyanide pill) would be a mostly viable means of escaping capture. High-risk economic activity would be seen as more viable. In fact, it's likely that crime would explode for a period while society adjusts to the fact that being killed in the commission of a crime is no longer "the end". Resources once considered too dangerous to extract would be actively sought out by those with the means to imprint/regen. Acts once considered extremely noble (i.e. captain going down with the ship) would be simply commonplace or even contractually required. Sorry, I know this has been kinda rambling, but it's something I've been wondering about more and more. I'd love to hear the lore team's take on regeneration and what it would mean for society.
Answer: We know this question comes around a lot and is of great interest to the community. The Narrative team actually dedicated one of our recent "lore jams" to elaborate on the subject of this question.
First, the death penalty. This practice would be impacted by regeneration tech, but the death penalty itself has already been outlawed in the 'verse for hundreds of years. As for murder, the law has gone a simple route. It is the act of murder that is being punished. Whether someone successfully regenerates or not, the prosecution is the same.
Second, using Regeneration as an "Out." It's not unheard of for criminals to use regenerating to escape a disadvantageous situation, but it's not all that common, either. It's important to remember that regeneration is not pleasant. Even if death itself is painless, regenerating is not. And then there's all the other side effects, like scarring, loss of memory, or being unable to use limbs you've previously lost even after they've been regenerated because the loss has deeply imprinted itself upon your consciousness. Using regeneration as an "out" is an extreme action - like sawing off your arm when you've been pinned under a rock - even if it's your only way out, how many people would actually go through with it?
Third, the broader cultural impact. It's understandable that we want to try and explain the risk-embracing behavior of players as an indication of the broader cultural impact of regeneration. But people don't drive more recklessly because they have seat belts. A lot of the repercussions and limitations of regeneration aren't represented in the current iteration of the game so while some individuals might be more reckless, it's likely they were predisposed for that behavior regardless of the wide availability of regeneration. For companies and organizations like the UEE, regeneration is still a costly process, and it's almost always either cheaper, easier, or simply more moral, to focus on saving lives than it is to rely on this imperfect technology.
Regeneration is a huge topic that we could explore for days on end. It is definitely part of the fabric of what makes Star Citizen unique as a science-fiction setting. Don't forget that in the lore of the universe regeneration is still very new technology. It was only released publicly in the UEE a few years ago, so the full extent of its impact hasn't been seen yet.
