Hi @tetora_san -
We answered your question in this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/19191-Loremakers-Community-Questions). Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: While searching for information about badges given at the first referral program level, I discovered the incredible stories of some squadrons, but found nothing related to the 323th. Is there any lore around the 323th? I'm really curious to know the notable actions of this squadron.
Answer: The UEEN Aggressor Squadron 323 was first introduced into lore as part of the announcement for the Esperia-manufactured Vanduul Glaive reproduction. Specializing in mimicking Vanduul tactics, the highly-skilled squadron was selected to be outfitted with the first production run of Human-made Glaives so they could operate training skirmishes to better prepare Navy pilots going up against Vanduul clans. Traditionally, an aggressor squadron is one that serves the role of being the "enemy" during training exercises and war games. In Star Citizen, this means that the 323 have become masters of Vanduul combat behavior and can fly with their unique aggressive flight style in a convincing manner. Before Esperia started making accurate reproductions, aggressor squadrons like the 323 would fly either normal military ships (frequently outfitted in special livery to make them seem more Vanduul), or the rare Vanduul salvaged ship; though the latter was infrequently used owing to impracticalities involved. Based out of MacArthur (Kilian V), the Navy's official headquarters, the 323 frequently recruit pilots who are near the end of their service commitment as a way to utilize their combat experience before they retire.
As mentioned in the question, Star Citizen's Referral Program features an Aggressor Squadron 323 "No Quarter Given" badge to display as part of the "Badger and Badges" reward given for obtaining the rank of Recruiter. However, in researching this question, the Narrative team discovered a typo in the description of this reward where the squadron was referred to incorrectly as the "35th." It should now be correct.
