Hi @Septaplex -
We answered your question in this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/19191-Loremakers-Community-Questions). Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: Why is it still called the United Empire of Earth when the Messers, now widely seen as malevolent dictators, originally gave it that name? Is there some reason why they opted not to rename the UEE to something new, without the historical baggage, after the Messer Era?
Answer: The simple answer is democracy. On April 30, 2793, the Senate voted on the massive Governance Modernization Act (GMA) meant to repair and reform a system warped to the will of the Messer's for far too long. Within this piece of legislation was a provision that would've renamed the United Empire of Earth to the Democratic Stellar Union (DSU), while another would have moved the empire's capital from Earth to Terra. Following a spirited debate within the Senate, the GMA fell three votes short of passing.
Of course, the real answer is much, much more complicated. It's a mixture of politics, optics, adoration for the past, and other factors. While the revolution was successful, not everyone supported it. Plenty of people and systems benefitted from the Messer regime and their policies, while others were happy to see the Messers go but believed the underlying institutions didn't need to be drastically overhauled. It could be argued that bundling the name change alongside other initiatives in the GMA, like the still controversial proposal to move the capital to Terra, forever tainted and politicized the idea. It made supporting a new name synonymous with moving the capital to Terra, an idea Earth-centric politicians and corporations strongly opposed.
Meanwhile, others argued that renaming the empire would make Humanity look weak to the Xi'an Empire and immediately nullify trade treaties with the Banu, grinding vital inter-species trading to a halt. One anti-name change Senator even calculated the cost of updating the empire's name on buildings, ships, equipment, armor, stationary, and more. Though the astronomical sum and the methodology used to achieve it were widely disputed, the number became a cultural punchline, turning people off to the idea and onto the immensity of the issue it would be to rename the empire.
Changing the name of the UEE has never come to a vote again after the failure of the GMA. Blame the politicization of the idea, or the Earth-centric entities desperate not to lose political, economic, or cultural cache. Blame the potential real world and political cost. All of these factors, and more, combined to keep the name United Empire of Earth around after the downfall of the Messers. Once it survived that turbulent time, the UEE worked hard to redefine itself so it would symbolize something other than the despotic regime that named it.
