Hi @The-Black-Sun -
We answered your question in this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/19191-Loremakers-Community-Questions). Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: How are we supposed to sort our trash and recycling? Based on the bins currently in-game, it doesn't make a lot of sense. It's sparked some serious discussions between me and my friends and kept me up at night. I even asked the Reddit SC Discord but everyone had different answers.
Please help us settle this important waste separation discussion! It's more relevant than ever and also has some potential gameplay around it. Cleaning up the trash could offer a small incentive, like improving your rep, reducing fines, lowering crimestats, and so forth.
Answer: Not only does litter make us bitter, it's also a potential issue for servers to handle. While the game could just magically make garbage disappear, the hope is that we can develop it as part of possible gameplay loops and allow players to help with properly discarding items. That's why Design has been tasked with figuring out how to handle things players want to throw away. The Narrative team has had an initial, broad discussion with them, but it's still very much a work in progress. While nothing is set in stone, one of the proposed ideas is that the player shouldn't have to sort anything. A player could place their unwanted items into any bin and it would be sorted behind the scenes. This would make it easy for players to help keep the servers from getting bogged down. If that path is chosen, the lore could lean into a bit of future tech, like a smart trash sorting system, to explain how it works.
There's also been discussions about how to incentivize players to toss things in the trash, but nothing has been settled on yet. Would certain kinds of trash offer higher incentives than others? One thing to keep in mind is that providing a perk, like improving rep or lowering a crimestat, ties into other systems and might lead to unintended consequences. For example, imagine a player who is focused on earning reputation with a particular gang. They take a few minutes to toss trash into the bins at Orison only to have the rep boost with Crusader mess with their outlaw status. However these issues get sorted, the Narrative team is definitely looking forward to the satisfaction of placing an empty Pips can where it belongs.
