Hello everyone,
We would like to share an update regarding our plans for the upcoming 3.18 patch releases. Following thorough discussions with our publishing and development teams, we have made the decision to implement a fundamental change to our testing process, with the objective of shortening the delivery time to live. In order to increase our efficiency and remain on schedule for Alpha 3.19, we will be conducting simultaneous release management of both the 3.18.1 and 3.18.2 patches.
We have locked 3.18.1 for external testing, and our development team is now hammering away at it with a set of updated load-testing tools. While load testing has always been a part of our process, we are making changes to incorporate this new method of 'locking' and doing 'final load testing' internally for all future releases.
We are eager to start testing 3.18.2 on the PTU with all of you, potentially as early as tomorrow (Thursday). By testing 3.18.2 and locking 3.18.1 in this way, we believe we can save time to help us reach our upcoming major milestones. This will also make space for us to create the 3.19 branch as soon as possible, so we can start the process of preparing to go to PTU soon after the release of 3.18.2.
It was important that we communicate this to you early so that there is no confusion when 3.18.2 rolls out for testing, despite 3.18.1 not having hit the live servers yet. We're excited about this new approach and hope it will bring significant improvements to how we roll out our regular content. As always, we sincerely appreciate your ongoing support and look forward to seeing you in the 'verse!
## UPDATE (3/31):
In my original message above, I shared that 3.18.1 was locked and moved to internal load testing using our updated toolset. "Locking" a build means that we restrict any further development check-ins/changes going into the build, to avoid any new issues being introduced. We'll often lock a build in the preparation for a live rollout. In this case, a couple of new issues were discovered internally that resulted in our team adding additional logging to the build, with the plan to put the build back onto the PTU, allowing that new logging to gather information from normal play behavior.
Separately, we plan to roll out 3.18.2 very soon, alongside a playtest for XenoThreat. Stay tuned for more details!
