Hi greentaco,
Thanks for the question, I am Edward Fuller, so you found me. Outside of a more direct q&a forum post you can just post questions in this forum and if we think we can give a meaningful and accurate answer we will. I'm doing this on my day off and I think I can answer so I will.
We already do quite a few missions with counter missions, where by the counter only becomes available once the initial mission has reached some point where we think a counter is logical/fair/fun for players involved in either. When devising new missions we always consider if a counter mission is a viable and they'll be designed at the same time because often both missions require considerations to how the other works with each other, be that direct design choices or technical considerations.  Not all missions have counters sometimes they don't make sense or inclusion would undermine the intentions of the other, we also don't always want to bring players into conflict so there is always a considered approach.
A simple example of a mission with a counter is the comm array hack (criminal) and comm array repair (Lawful) counter. We also have a counter to one of the the downed relay mission variations issued by Clovus where one player has to recover a blade from a downed relay and return it to a ugf to upload, the counter has another player tasked to intercept the experimental blade that the first mission has recovered.
We also have open contract missions like the missing crew on derelicts mission which is effectively an open contract to many. We used to have all the derelict missions operate as competitive missions, multiple players after the same Blackbox for example but we changed that as more design oppertunities came available.  We also don't shy away from having multiple missions use the same location at the same time, where that doesn't cause mission objective conflicts because it can result in unknown/interesting player interactions.
For the question about missiongivers/issuers contacting you mid mission to suggest an option to take support but for a pay cut. Mission givers messaging you and offering a player simple decisions that alters a course of a mission doesn't seem implausible a design but it's not something we are investigating right now. It is something we'd like to do, the classic example is a delivery for one employer and then getting a counter offer that would pay better but damage rep with the original mission issuer, since you would fail the original issuers mission.
For your suggested salvage and mining scenarios of supplying further protection, we'd probably be up front with the player so, before Misson acceptance we'd say in the description if support is provided or not and alter the buy in amount for the rights to the salvage/mining location. Higher for more protection, Lower for less.
As for Player assistance. It is intended that we will have a player issued combat assist beacon, but there's still some work to figure out the rules there given the work we are planning with reputation based hostility which will make for some interesting questions of protecting others when their reputations differ from yours.
