To be exiled from your family would probably be the one of the very worst things that can happen to a Xi'an. Family is EXTREMELY important, not just in a relationship way, but a career way. A lot of older, bigger Xi'an families run businesses and raise up their kids to join that business. Your personal wealth is generally tied up in your family fortune, so you'd get cut off from the family money pool as well. You'd lose significantly more than just your family relationships if you were kicked out of your family. It's something that's only VERY rarely done.
Some Xi'an choose to break off from their families to establish their own line. This is something that's also rarely done, but it doesn't carry the same somber outcome that being kicked out would. How a family would react to one of their members going off to create a new line varies from family to family. Some would support them and give them a little nest egg to get things set up. Some would feel ambivalent and wish them luck and keep up with them through regular social contact. Some would be deeply offended and do everything in their power to make sure that family member couldn't get ANYTHING from the family. It just depends on how the family operates and the personalities of the family leaders.
Xi'an do experience loneliness. A Xi'an cut of from their family would most likely experience depression, mood swings, anxiety, etc.
However, keep in mind that ALL Xi'an do spend thirty years away from their families in required military service. Even though they are separate from their families, they aren't cast-off. They communicate. They know they have a family to return to once their service is over. And they readily form bonds with other Xi'an in the service, which they sometimes carry with them once they return home. So, any Xi'an is perfectly willing to spend some time away from home, sometimes for very long periods of time, if they have to. If you encounter a lone Xi'an in space, don't assume that they've been outcast from their family. Likely, they're just engaged in some business and will return home in time.
