Seeing players interrupted by issues is super frustrating for us so I'm going to take some time to respond. This might be the only exception to the "we don't answer when questions" rule because stability and performance issues are problems that are being fixed almost all the time.
I'll start off by defining what we consider to be performance and stability issues. If we were to use a real world analogy, performance is how well a car can turn around a corner. A stability issues occurs when the car crashes or flips over.
Performance: Using the above analogy, this is how fast our car is going. Strictly speaking, performance issues cover most of what is mentioned in the original post as they have to do with game server and backend service performance.
"lag spikes, rubber-banding, invisible debris, disappearing gear... Shards wont die anymore so if its unstable because nothing is ever cleaned up"
Some of these are clear performance issues, and some are a bit of a gray area. Shards being alive for a long time and having cleanup issues is a performance issue rather than a stability problem, however it can become a stability problem if the amount of stuff that isn't getting cleaned up causes the server to crash. Invisible debris and disappearing gear can be caused by performance issues, but not always.
Stability: When the car crashes or flips over in our above analogy. With regards to the game, stability issues are server crashes, client crashes, and disconnections only. So when we talk about addressing stability issues, this is what we're referring to.
The engineers and programmers responsible for improving the game performance and stability work on this constantly. It can be foundational work such as improving how we gather data to identify worst offenders for these problems. There are then engineers and QA testers that use these changes to gather information for the performance and stability issues and make sure that any identified problems are tracked as a bug.  After that, there are people who investigate the data that was gathered and work on implementing fixes to address them. It's never a silver bullet though. Fixes for performance and stability issues are iterative, as a lot of the time the next big worst offender can't be properly identified until the current known issues are addressed. Depending on the needs of a build that is being looked at, these kinds of investigations and changes can take place daily. There are analytics that are used to measure performance and stability of the game so that we can have a good idea of if our fixes are helping to improve things or if they got worse.
For performance, sometimes getting notable gains in performance requires huge changes to how the game works and those aren't something that can be done quickly. Rather they're done slowly over time with a lot of planning. A lot of the time when these big changes are made to the game, it will initially result in both worse performance and stability as the problems with the new technology get worked out but over the long term, where the game ends up is better than were it was prior to the changes being made.
With the work that we've been doing, performance and stability for the public environment has gotten better over time, but where still not happy with where things currently are and there are still issues that we're working on to get closer to that goal.
With regards to server 'resets', a lot of the time that happens naturally. Given that the game is hosted on the AWS cloud environment, when players go to sleep for the night and the server population goes down, the empty servers are shut down. When players then come back to play the following day, servers are started up again and freshly started servers are usually on different hosts than they were originally due to how AWS works ( https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/Stop_Start.html#what-happens-start )
