Sorry that the reply on this took so long. I wanted to wait for the new patch to be released before addressing it since some of these issues may have been fixed by that.
Clearly a number of you have had a frustrating time with this and feel like things aren't being done to help get your accounts back into a playable state.
First, let's address the short term work. If your account is still broken, please either make an issue council or contribute to one you feel covers your problem. I know this is something that we asked you to do in the past but I'll explain why we're doing that again. ( I've also started a thread here that we will use to find example accounts for investigating remaining issues https://robertsspaceindustries.com/spectrum/community/SC/forum/51473/thread/disconnection-errors-that-are-not-going-away-borke )
Unfortunately, a lot of issues that cause disconnections like this are a result of multiple systems tripping over themselves ( what we refer to as systemic issues ) and when we fix a problem, it can fix more issues that the one we were originally looking at. On the other hand, there are multiple separate issues that often cause the same disconnection error. They aren't as easy to separate into different bugs as something like a crash is. Because of that all of that, when we fix an issue, we need to check back and see how much actually got fixed and see if there are accounts that are still affected.
What this means is that in the course of fixing a disconnection error, if we ever close an issue council that you had reported to in the past ( either if it was resolved as fixed or incorrectly closed as a duplicate), it doesn't mean that we're ignoring that your account is broken. Rather it means that we fixed what we feel was causing the issue and we now need to see if there are any remaining.
Please continue to tell us if your account has not been fixed. If an issue council gets resolved or closed as a dupe but you're still having an issue after having performed a character repair, please make a issue council so that players can tell us they're still having issues. That will let us know what is going on and allow us to investigate accounts that are still broken. In the best case scenario, some of these issues can be hotfixed or our developers can fix broken accounts programmatically. In the worst case scenario, it may take a major patch to get a fix which might be a while.
Now, long term work. The fact that we have to ask yall to repeatedly tell us you can't log into the game shows that this is an area that needs improvement but as I mentioned earlier, these are more difficult to differentiate than something like a crash. Over the years, we've been making improvements to how we gather analytics and some of the recent improvements we've made may allow us to more easily identify specific accounts that can't login. It is an area we will continue to work on improving over time to make it easier and faster to identify and fix these problems.
Until we have better analytics for these issues:
If your account is broken, you have tried a repair, entered an issue council, and you feel like your issue council isn't getting looked at, send it to me as a direct message on spectrum. Depending on how many of these messaged I get, I might not respond but I will make sure they're tracked and being investigated.
