Hi all,
Thank you all for your feedback so far. It already helped a lot and we are already starting to understand what we can do to improve the current issues/situation with the instability and in addition have some ideas to improve the gameplay's quality of life even further (more for the future but I can assure you noted down and tasked up :slightly_smiling_face: )
Since it was brought up in several discussion I want to take this opportunity since it is partly related and talk about weak points and how they are currently interpret by the community.
Our intention was to give you some time to come up with the solution yourself but talking to you right now we noticed with the information we provide it is impossible for you to figure what our intention are.
First off we will make sure that this will be improved hopefully in parallel with our Instability improvements.
So let me explain:
The way that the weak point system currently is interpret in the game is not technically a weak point it is more the opposite, that means that moving the laser has an impact on the laser's instability.
The more you move the more instable the laser power is therefore the more power you can "tickle" out. But very unpredictable that adds up to the current issues with instability.
That is the reason why sometimes the instability effect can be perceived stronger than it should be.
That means though if you hold still it positively affects the laser's instability (But as of now only on the laser side not what is "naturally given" by the rock). Therefore not moving does not help against instability (we are right now discussing if that should be a counter to some degree for instability of elements)
Additionally I saw other theories about how a "weak point" affects the outcome of your mining.
Right now it only affects the instability other phenomena are caused by other parameters we also have to make sure are better communicated so they become "predictable" and therefore usable by you the players.
Hope this is of any help to all of you. Happy mining, talk to you soon.
Cheers,
