Hi @Spacccey -
We answered your question in this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/19375-Loremakers-Community-Questions). Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question:  This is a question spurred on by a stupid discussion I was having with a friend, but now I just have to know. What does a Stormwal taste like and is it safe to eat? Better yet, what would be the best way to cook one? As a steak, a stew, roast, etc. My curiosity and my stomach need to be sated.
Answer: Before we dive into the finer points of stormwal-based cuisine, it is important to note that these majestic creatures are protected by law and Crusader Security does not look kindly on poachers. As such, ethically and morally, we strongly recommend against eating a stormwal.
Now with the legalities out of the way, the most surprising thing regarding stormwals as a food source, is how comparatively little there is for their respective size. Much of their bulk is occupied by inner flight bladders which are extremely tough and rubbery. While they don't have much flavor, they offer an interesting textural element to a meal. They can be eaten raw after mechanical tenderizing (either through heavily scoring the flesh or by extending pounding) or they can be served cooked by thinly slicing into noodles and stewing for a very long time until it achieves a texture similar to a firm gelatin. Either preparation is traditionally served in a strongly flavored citrus dipping sauce. The cooked version of the bladder can also be fried into a crispy cracker.
The other main part that can be consumed is the stormwal's fin which has a ring of lean dark meat known for its strong minerally flavor. A raw preparation is the most common with thin slices being marinated in oil, salt and spices. Particular care must be taken to slice against the grain or the fin meat will be almost inedibly tough. Cooking the fin is not recommended as the stormwal's muscle fibers tend to constrict tightly together when exposed to heat and the end result is very dry and fibrous.
