Hi @Septaplex -
We answered your question in this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/19375-Loremakers-Community-Questions). Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: Observist Lifestyle - Citizens for Pyro (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/18810-Observist-Lifestyle-Citizens-For-Pyro) details a meeting between a reporter and the leader of a new organization called Citizens for Pyro that aims to establish a haven in Pyro "within the next five years". You mentioned in a recent lore Q&A that there will be independent homesteaders, farmers, and the like in Pyro who a lawful player might be more inclined to ally with over the various gangs. Is this Citizens for Pyro group planned to be another faction that lawful players will be able to do missions for in Pyro?
Answer: Citizens for Pyro is a group of concerned civilians intent on suppressing the criminal forces who control Pyro and use it as a base of operations to attack other systems. The group began by sending forces into Pyro to hunt down criminals but soon realized that these forays did little to address the problem. They believe that expanding the influence and size of non-gang affiliated civilian settlements within Pyro is the only way to alter the course of the system’s future. The more civilians there are living in Pyro, the more commerce will occur and the more resources will be spent on protecting those interests by improving the systems overall safety, stability, and well-being. This plan has garnered interest and support from both companies and private donors who are interested in expanding the economic opportunities in Pyro. While Citizens for Pyro has primarily been a volunteer group based outside the system, this support means they could soon be looking for contractors to aid their goal of establishing and protecting settlements in Pyro. If you have nerves of steel and aren't afraid to take the fight to Pyro's gangs, then definitely keep an eye out for future contracts from Citizens for Pyro.
