Hi @Lloyd_Andrews -
We answered your question in this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/19375-Loremakers-Community-Questions). Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: I am curious what Miner's Lament looked like/was before what looks to be an explosion that happened to destroy the station. Will we ever learn this or is it up to the theory groups?
Answer: Miner's Lament is so named because it was the home of a tragic mining disaster in 2868. A small group of former Shubin Interstellar employees seeking to take advantage of the recently privatized Stanton System pooled their resources and formed their own mining consortium. After scanning multiple available claim sites, the group decided on this location near Yela thinking that it would provide them with the quickest profit. With what funds they had remaining after purchasing the claim, they contracted out for the construction of a mining facility believing the higher volume of ore they would be able to process would offset the startup costs in the long run. However, when delays and cost overruns threatened the entirety of their operations they decided to halt construction and utilize the partially complete station as best they could, finishing it once they made some profits.
Three weeks in, tragedy struck. One of the facility's large storage hoppers became over pressurized when a safety release valve failed. The hopper burst sending ore shards and shrapnel hurtling through the facility and nearby vehicles killing dozens of miners. The operation was shortly shut down afterwards as it was no longer functional and has remained closed in the decades since. In 2918, the claim rights reverted and the area was stripped of most of its resources by various independent operators. It was during this time when visitors to the claim began racing each other for fun until it evolved into the modern track that Wildstar members now frequent.
