Hi @nturavrgJoe -
We answered your question in this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/19375-Loremakers-Community-Questions). Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: I know there is a desire to make as much unique flora and fauna as possible, but what of humanity's old frenemies?
Historically, we have unintentionally shipped rats, mice, roaches, mosquitos, etc all over the world, and our record of accidental releases is not much better (wild pigs/boar, rabbits, nutria, feral cats eating local birds, etc...). While I am sure there will be other alien creatures that fill similar niches, how likely is it we will see a good old (space) rat tussling with its local equivalent in ArcCorp and other human settlements?
Answer: The familiar fauna you mentioned are definitely alive and well across the UEE. Space travel has been so widespread for so long that the pests and parasites that have hounded Humanity for ages have also found a home wherever we've established one. For all the captains who would take the time to systematically vent each section of their ship to ensure no unwanted creatures were along for the ride, there would be plenty of others who would never bother. However, as Humans traveled the stars and encountered new species, there has definitely been more competition for those Earth creatures. So it wouldn’t be too surprising if an alien creature has taken over the vents on a space station that you’d normally expect to see a rat.
We refer to such creatures as "boids", and the Narrative team has already created a list of some that populate the universe. Our breakdown includes specifying the type (insect, bird, crustacean, reptile, and so forth), the biome it inhabits, a description, and if anything can be harvested from it either directly or indirectly. One of these boids, the stone bug, was introduced in the 3.18 patch. Meanwhile, the Ranta may not have made itself visible to players just yet, but its dry cube-shaped dung is harvestable in-game. While common rats, roaches, mosquitos, and other creepy-crawlers are alive and well, our boids list consists of strange creatures and those that feel familiar but have a sci-fi twist that make them unique to our world. We also develop these boids in conjunction with other teams, and want to ensure they have the creative freedom to explore interesting ideas and looks. Some of the boids you'll see populating the world will be pulled from this list we've created and others will come directly from other teams that we give a Narrative spin.
So, yes, the familiar little creatures that we all know and hate/love are in the Star Citizen universe. Yet, Players are more likely to find themselves in situations facing exotic boids, like by scraping hull barnacles off their ship before they cause damage or collecting Blunders for their highly corrosive vital fluids.
