EDIT1: Made clear what trichording means.
EDIT2: Edited doubled sections. Should not edit on a phone I guess ...
Yes and no but mostly no, context is important. For the purpose of the Master Mode (MM) testing we're activating tri-chording and attitude (i.e. pitch yaw) limiters. What those limiters do is clamp the acceleration advantage you get from combining axes. So you can still trichord but you will not get higher accels out of it.
Here is a bit what roughly said in the ETF channels on that topic:
At this point I am tending to be very critical of the benefits that tri-chording offers as it creates a couple of problems for us:
- High performance tuning issues: G-Balancing is pretty hard in itself but the ability to trichord is actually becoming a big issue for faster fighters (as they benefit more from those compared to less agile ships). Take the Gladius ... the non-MM Gladius can pull about 50% more Gs boosting tri-chorded than just by boosting forward ... controlling that from a balance POV is almost impossible, the advantage is simply too big. And because of that players have no other choice but to rely on that technique alone when they compete against each other. There is no variance in this either, you either have to do it or you can't compete.
- Unfair disadvantages for certain controllers: As much the advantage from trichording is, certain input devices simply do not allow you to use it. Almost all gamepads on the market have a circular mask at the stick base and these cannot physically be pushed in the corners (meaning reaching the full 1/1 extension ... these devices will stop at 0.7/0.7 ... this was also the reason why mouse VJoy pilots used to have a disadvantage against joystick players until a couple of releases back as I accidently had added that limitation to the VJoy implementation years ago). That means those devices do not allow players to fully reach the potential of their ships. While I am a HOSAS pilot myself from a gameplay POV I do not want to win against somebody with a gamepad because I happen to own a more expensive stick. It has been a common practise in games for 25 years now that you cannot go faster by going diagonally like in those very early 90ies games. This is basically the same thing. We need a fair environment for competition, be it in racing or dogfighting. And having those limiters helps with that.
- Aesthetics: Most of our ships have big beefy engines at the back so we want to see the strongest accelerations when they fly forward. It just looks better and from a gameplay point of view and high performance flying under that condition it is less prone to be reliant on look ahead techniques or head tracking.
So by not allowing additional Gs from tri-chording we actually gain a couple of potential benefits. As said before currently successful racing and PVP combat is gated behind the usage of tri-chording. Limiting it will actively lower the entry level which might encourage more players to participate in those activities. Additionally without tri-chording we have a good opportunity to focus more on the individual flight properties of the ships. Pulling an input device into the corners shouldn't be the skill on the mastering your ships ... it should be in mastering the ship dynamics itself. Without the excessive benefits of tri-chording the more nuanced differences between ships become much more meaningful and it's easier to expand on them.
Now I do understand that there might be critical voices on this (naturally the topic comes up with racers quite regularly) but keep in mind that we're just testing this with the master mode tunings. This will not get rolled out in 3.20 in general, it is just limited to very specific test sessions and we have different ship tunings in those cases. For every ship we automatically calculate what we call a dogfighting index which is a unified number that describes the maximum amount of Gs that ship can pull in combination with the maximum rotation rate (which in turn describes the ability to offset the velocity vector). To give you an example: While the MM Gladius has both the tri-chording and attitude limiters enabled, it has much stronger forward and side boost plus higher rotations rates. The dogfight index compared to the non-MM Gladius however is almost the same ... the ship flies notably different though.
As always nothing is final and we'll see how it develops. Hope that makes sense.
So TLDR: For 3.20 MM testing yes, for 3.20 in general no.
