Hi @Jag-Hiroshi -
We answered your question in this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/19484-Loremakers-Community-Questions). Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: Will we see religion and religious figures in-game? Battle hardened warrior nuns. Priests swinging electron maces. Places of worship and religious factions. Maybe a gothic BMM that doubles up as a cathedral?
Personally, I'd like to see cult-like activity around mega-fauna like the giant sand worm, Valakkar, with priests feeding sacrificial victims to it to purify their souls. Hoping that SC will not be soulless.
Answer: Plenty of people will be believers within the universe. As we've previously stated, current religions still exist but will not be a focus of the lore. Instead, Narrative attention will be on religions and cults that have found followers since Humanity’s expansion into space, several of which we’ve already established. They run the gamut from the benevolent Church of the Journey, which teaches people to meditate on the path they're traveling through life, to the fanatical Outsiders (aka Sun's Eye Fellowship) whose aggressive anti-modernity stance lead to them overthrowing corporate interests and ruling Mya (Leir II) since 2812. There will also be smaller sects whose reach and influence will be more localized, like the flare star obsessed Fire Rats gang or those that believe an all-knowing prophet resides in Pyro.
We've also spent time developing the religions practiced by the various alien races. Banu will often have an altar dedicated to Cassa, the Patron of Luck, or Taernin, the Great Traveler. They will also hire a religious souli to do blessings for them, or even adopt a foreign religion they encounter on their travels. Meanwhile, Xi'an follow the Li'tova, which centers around the concept of time and was codified into Xi'an law in 19,668 BCE. The planet R.aip’uāng (Kai’pua III) is a religious commune dedicated to practicing Li'tova and famous for its labyrinthine gardens and sacred temples. Finally, Tevarin followed the war ethos of the Rijora until their defeat in the Second Tevarin War led them to abandon its practice during their cultural purge. The religion has seen a resurgence recently and found new followers among the Tevarin diaspora in Branaugh.
