Hi @Septaplex -
We answered your question in this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/19484-Loremakers-Community-Questions). Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: It was previously mentioned that the majority of the UEE population does not own a ship. I would imagine that the majority of pilots in the 'verse who own personal ships are probably Citizens who learned how to fly ships whilst serving in the UEE Navy, and received the appropriate pilot training along the way. But what about the ordinary civilians who are using their ships for jobs like cargo hauling? Are there different "classes" of ships that a pilot's license will allow them to fly, based on the amount of training they have received?
In addition to all the extra nuances of flying a ship compared to say driving a car even many so-called "starter" ships such as the Aurora are capable of pulling upwards of 7 Gs in the game - which, while not quite as much as a fighter or a racer, is still quite a lot (roller coasters, by comparison, usually top out at around 4 Gs), so I would imagine that an aspiring civilian pilot would probably have to undergo a similar physical fitness regimen, centrifuge training, etc. as a military fighter pilot just to obtain a license to fly their own ship. And probably even more so if the pilot in question is training to be a racer or a data runner, as the Herald is actually the fastest current ship in the game!
Answer: The Narrative team has discussed that the Traffic Safety Board (part of the Department of Transportation and Navigation) would issue certifications for pilots to legally be allowed to operate spaceships.There are different classes of certifications for various vessels depending on their size and capabilities. In recent years, thanks to how advanced sim-pods have become, much of the training and certification process can now be done virtually. And with the popularity of flight-sims like Arena Commander, there are numerous pilots across the 'verse who are accredited to fly without ever having physically flown a ship.
How this might be represented in-game is still being discussed with Design and the final decision is still pending. So, it may be that players will have to be certified before being allowed to legally operate vehicles, or possibly that there will be an assumption that they have been certified well before they even started playing.
