Hi @Bishop_xx -
We answered your question in this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/19484-Loremakers-Community-Questions). Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: The BiotiCorp Regen Serum is used as a base material for the bioprinting of bodies. My question is, how human is a regenerated person? I don't mean from a philosophical point of view but rather how well can the serum mimic real blood, bone, and tissue? Will a regenerated person feel the difference?
Answer: From a physiological perspective, regened Humans are 100% Human with real cells, tissues, organs, and so forth. There's no placeholder goo or tech replicating aspects or functions of the body, it's a real body. The serum works with the Ibrahim sphere to regen a Human or alien that's physiologically identical to their imprint, including imperfections and life's wear and tear.
Now, whether a regened person can 'feel the difference' between their previous and regened body is a question that veers into the philosophical, but we have already called out that phantom pain is possible. The regen serum creates the physical aspects of the body, but it's the Ibrahim sphere that captures and transfers a person's memories, personality, and other intangibles. Imprinting creates a link, or 'echo', that can pick up and register traumatic events that occur to the host's body. So someone regening after an accident might feel phantom pain in a leg that was crushed, as the physical pain and psychological fear of that experience will 'echo' to the imprint and impact their regeneration. This mind/body connection was important from a design perspective, so characters would age and face the consequences of their actions. While the psychological aspect of how someone 'feels' after regen aren't represented in the game design, the situation creates some interesting role playing situations for Players and dramatic possibilities within the lore, one of which was already explored in the short story Hazy Days.
