## Arena Commander 3.21: Feature Updates
Maps
- Winners Circle – Due to issues with AI flight in atmosphere, particularly the UEE Javelin, not being atmosphere-suitable, we have disabled Winners Circle for Pirate Swarm.
- Winners Circle – The playable area has increased to 10km Altitude (was 6km)
Game Modes Adjustments
- Gun Rush – Special Event
Visit Gun Rush October 19th til November 10th to take part in a special event for the UEE celebration “Day of the Vara”, where Gun Rush will be sure to send shivers down your spine! Details: https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/transmission/19463-Halloween-2023
- Endless Vanduul Swarm (Master Modes) – Significant Wave Balance Adjustment
Endless Vanduul Swarm (currently exclusive to the Master Modes Experimental Test) has received a significant balance adjustment. The number of AI that spawn per wave, in general, has been reduced; however, the “Elite” wave where 7 Vanduul Primes spawn now includes all 13 Legendary Vanduul Pilots!
The strength of Vanduul ships and skill of Vanduul pilots now scales per wave. While we won’t be sharing the exact details of this scaling, we are excited to see how players adapt and look forward to the feedback.
Reach wave 25 (24 minutes) to earn the 2953 Vanduul Aggressor Badge!
- Pirate Swarm – Wave & AI Skill Adjustments
Following feedback from players and internal testing, we’ve made changes to waves 7, 8 and 9 of Pirate Swarm for a better experience. This has us replace any use of Merlins & Constellations with other ships while we await improvements to the ships and radar/scanning systems. We’ve also adjusted AI skills between wave 4 and 8 for a better difficulty curve.
Wave 7: Constellation & Merlin replaced with Corsair.
Wave 8: Wave replaced with an intermediately skilled Hammerhead.
Wave 9: Added 2x Buccaneers & 1x Corsair.
System & Balance
Match Cycle Improvements – A small update to match cycling will make it extremely rare to get the same map in your next match. A collection of new logging & error handling has been added to match cycling which will give developers and players better visibility on the issues preventing their match from cycling. A rare but major bug which caused match cycling to get stuck on “Searching for Match” has also been resolved.
F8C Removal – Removed the F8C from the allowed vehicles of Battle Royale & Duel, as these modes are limited to Light & Medium Fighters. Also adjusted its score to 3,500 to better represent its class and ability.
Force Ready System – While introduced with 3.20 this system lacked some essential UI. To prevent players holding the lobby in pre-game for too long we have added a Force Ready System wherein after some time after reaching the required minimum players a countdown will begin which once concluded will force all players ready and continue the pre-game sequence. The countdown is now displayed alongside the ready up message.
(Game-wide) Added Driver Staged Zoom (Remote Turret) – Furthering the introduction of zoom [default: Z) to remote turrets operated by drivers (such as in the TMBR Nova Tank) we have added staged zoom, allowing the player to cycle between 1x, 2x and 4x zoom.
