Hi, I wanted to provide an explanation of the new Ship Trespass feature as it is complex and, just like the “Castle Doctrine” that it emulates, it is open to exploitation, and since it is not always possible to interpret player intention we might make the wrong call in rare cases.
The Ship Trespass feature gives innocent vehicle owners and their party the right to legally defend their vehicle from uninvited guests, with lethal force if necessary. However, players with a CS3 or above forfeit their legal right to defend their vehicle, as do players who have committed a hostile act* on another player for as long as they are considered hostile. Those who have entered a hostile player's vehicle will have the right to remain aboard the vehicle even after the owner is no longer considered hostile.
For other players to be considered invited aboard, they must be in a party with the vehicle owner. Party members that are kicked while aboard will not be considered trespassing until they leave the ship and re-enter or until they commit a hostile act. This is to prevent players from exploiting the feature to lure others aboard and kill them after kicking them from their party.
Those players entering a vehicle they are not allowed to will see a warning, notifying them that they are trespassing on another player’s private property. Whenever a player sees this warning they should know that they can be legally attacked and killed should they remain.
When trespassers are killed, they do not receive a crime and are not sent to prison by default. By default they would simply respawn in hospital, however it should be noted that there are reasons a trespasser with CS3 might respawn in prison after death, but these are circumstantial and not related to Ship Trespass.
Should a trespassing player leave the vehicle, they will remain hostile to the vehicle owner and their party for a short time, no matter how briefly they were trespassing for. This is to remove the griefing potential of briefly crossing the threshold and backing off to goad the ship owner into shooting them while not technically trespassing.
Ship trespassing also covers vehicles trespassing inside other vehicles. Should a player’s vehicle enter a another vehicle uninvited, the owner of the vehicle being trespassed upon and their party would be able to legally enter the trespassing vehicle. Should that vehicle then exit, once again, those players that entered legally while it was trespassing would have the right to remain as long as they remained onboard and did not trigger hostility themselves.
A non-violent method of removing trespassers has been implemented, but sadly it relies on players being scanned by security ships, which is something players are unable to trigger directly. Should a vehicle with a trespasser be scanned, the trespasser will be sent to prison with a misdemeanour trespass infraction.
I noticed that some B-roll on the announcement led to some incorrect assumptions so to clarify: Ship Trespass does not change the rules on drawing weapons within Armistice Zones even within your own ship and it was never the intention.
A final thing to note is that with this change only party members are automatically added to your vehicle chat channel so you will no longer receive a notification for every person that player your ship. This is to create balance and give stowaways a chance to sneak aboard without detection.
* Hostility is generated when a player commits a hostile act on a player considered innocent. It can be global which allows other innocent players the lawful right to defend the victim or personal which allows only the victim and their party the lawful right to defend themselves.
Both place a timer on the hostile during which they can lawfully be attacked. The timer is reset and increased should they continue to commit hostile acts and is reset to its current max should they be shot by those with the right to self-defence. This is to prevent the hostility timer running out while the hostile is still under attack from their victim.
Ship Trespass triggers the personal version of this so turrets won’t fire on a ship just because it has a trespasser aboard.
