Hi @Bacchus -
We answered your question in this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/19668-Loremakers-Community-Questions). Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: How do noncitizens feel about this day? There must be hundreds of millions of people that wanted to become a citizen, but fell short due to valid unforeseen personal reasons or just plain bureaucracy, nepotism, or even failing to pay off corrupt politicians. Are these civilians envious? Do they ignore Citizen Day, celebrate it or try to sabotage it?
Answer: Just like many things in the universe of Star Citizen, we envision Citizenship to be a nuanced matter. There are many civilians who live in the Empire that, while disenfranchised, either do not bother themselves with intersystem politics, or believe that those who have dedicated themselves to civic life are better situated to guide the Empire’s future. And while there are certainly other privileges associated with Citizenship besides voting in the Imperator elections (we are holding off on confirming the specific perks as they will have larger design and economic impacts that are being balanced), the benefits are such that they don’t often impact people’s day-to-day lives.
Of course, as mentioned, there are those that do desire Citizenship and seek it out through various paths like military service, charitable acts, major civic contributions, etc. Typically, if someone fails to earn the status it is less owing to physical capability and widespread corruption, and more because of issues with the law or the inability to dedicate the time needed to the endeavor. Citizenship is not meant to be for everyone, but to those who have made a significant effort to serve or better the Empire.
All of that said, there are groups within the UEE who believe that voting should be a basic right and everyone should be made a Citizen (There are even some who wish to abolish the status altogether). On Citizen Day, there are often protests and demonstrations to such effect. There has also been counter programming scheduled on the day geared toward civilians, along the lines of a punk music festival. Some stores have even been known to offer a tongue-in-cheek “Civilian Discount” that day.
