Hi @Septaplex -
We answered your question in this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/19668-Loremakers-Community-Questions). Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: There was a lot of talk at CitizenCon about the living conditions on the frontier, and those who played Pyro have commented on how the stations feel much more run-down than those in Stanton. If I recall correctly, while Nyx is also an unclaimed system, it still sees much more traffic than Pyro because of its location and jump point connections. I assume that Nyx has space stations to accommodate haulers and travelers, and was wondering how they might be different from what's in Pyro? Are Nyx’s rest stops still owned & operated by R&R despite the system not being official UEE territory? Is the plan to make them feel generally more well kept than the Pyro stations but still dirtier than Stanton’s?
Answer: Your assessment of the situation in Nyx is pretty spot on. The system went unclaimed by the UEE upon its discovery in 2582 after only the first planet was amenable to Human habitation. Of course, that didn't stop Humanity from exploiting it for resources. As you noted, it avoided the same fate as Pyro because its four large jump points and two medium jump points made it an important transit system. Even the Bremen Beltway, an underground network that smuggled UEE dissidents into Xi'an space during the Messer era, passed through the system. In comparison, Pyro only has one large and two medium jump points. This constant traffic definitely kept Nyx from spiraling into the lawless depths of Pyro and would've encouraged more businesses to take a chance to establish themselves in the system.
Exactly how this manifests in-game is yet to be seen, but your general take feels right. Space stations will look and feel more like Pyro than Stanton. Players who were around when Levski (Delamar) was temporarily placed in Stanton know that it has strong Pyro vibes. Still it won't be as rough as Pyro as it’s managed by the People’s Alliance, a group that fled the Messer regime and attempted to set up a new independent Human government. There's a chance Rest & Relax will have stations in some strategic locations or stations could be independently run, Mom & Pop operations that fall between legit R&Rs and decrepit gang controlled ones.
