Heya!
Thanks for the feedback, most of that will be approached, here are a few details:
Concerning the capacitor setup, we tried to go for high-regen-low-pool to low-regen-high-pool to suppress the micro-adjustments (change the setup every 2 seconds) that PVP players do as we want this more as a configuration-like mechanic, less than a whack-a-mole. But from the feedback of players we definitely oversteered here and avoid using it altogether. So we will pull it a bit back towards the previous setup. At the same time this will also affect the NAV mode regen, the debuff is definitely too strong right now (difference is almost a factor of 5). We still want a meaningful difference here though as otherwise players will constantly swap into NAV mode for a quick recovery and then come back which goes around the commitment we want to demand from combat players. We'll do a pass on this early next year and see where it gets us.
Concerning the delay between NAV mode switches, we can tinker a bit with the timings but I do not want racing ships to be drastically better just for the sake of racing. The reason is because racings ships are still just ships (there is a reason why we didn't include a racer in the MM ships yet) and they can be used for combat, so whatever we do they must adhere to the same principles. I tending to trying out a smoother ramping between the modes :thinking_face:
Concerning this:
allowing pilots to adjust vector in SCM mode
If you mean that decoupled doesn't allow you lateral accelerations while your ship is coming down into the speed limiter regen .. that is already on the todo list. It is actually not related to MM but the general way how we apply accelerations while the ship / IFCS tries to slow down back into the speed limit region. But it feels different to coupled because in coupled you do not control you speed, you just tell IFCS how fast to go and it does it for you. I said, it's on the todo list right now, we'll see how fast we'll fix that.
Okay, TLDR:
Thanks for the feedback, it's really valuable and that's why we're testing! We'll look at these things early next year.
As for the jump markers in NAV mode, that's a good thought ... although we were thinking about racing tracks that requires you to quantum boost. So I am not sure yet where that will go yet.
