I've been following the recent discussions, and I appreciate the concerns raised by our PVP-focused community. I'd like to provide some clarity and address a few of the key points that have been brought up. Before responding to this thread, I took the time to consult both our Player Relations and Development teams to ensure that we were all fully aligned.
We still believe in and encourage PVP solutions to in-game conflict. Our commitment to a player-driven universe remains the same. It's important to note that we are not eager to police PVP encounters, and in the vast majority of cases, we prefer players to engage in organic PVP without intervention.
Over the four years since I shared our stance here, we've only intervened a small number of times (less than I can count on two hands), a figure significantly lower than the countless reports of "excessive griefing" and "stream sniping" we've received.
However, there is a line where we will issue warnings, particularly to groups that take it to an extreme, making disruption their primary purpose for playing.
Within CIG, we have a considerable number of staff members who actively prefer piracy and PVP-focused content (myself included, known for my pirate-clad office in our Austin studio). We are committed to maintaining an environment where such gameplay is not only welcomed but embraced. Regular PVP and piracy-leaning activities are not only accepted but encouraged within the parameters of fair play.
We also acknowledge the responsibility on our part to create a universe that self-manages these types of encounters through a robust reputation and law system, alongside a variety of tweaks and additions to appropriately balance risk vs. reward. As you know, today, the game is not equipped for a fair balance of player factions, at least not to the degree we intend... and currently an event weeks in the making can be wiped out with minimal effort.
This has been seen more frequently lately with pad ramming and A2 flybys, commonly followed by videos mocking those impacted – all with very little gameplay repercussions. Again though, we are aware and acknowledge that this will need to be solved by the game itself, which will be the case as our intended systems come online and mature.
It's also important to understand that our recent warnings were directed at a specific group that we deemed as more radically impacting the intended Alpha experience.
Lastly, I want to clarify that our current stance is also not permanent. Espionage, piracy, and sabotage have their place in our universe, and we anticipate a more balanced and refined system to accommodate this as the game progresses.
