Hey,
First off, I would like to thank Yogi for taking his time out of development to actually go on ISC and talk about his work – and for the fantastic job he is doing. I know firsthand because I am always asking him for things :blush:
Secondly, I wanted to quickly address the feeling that SC is all about combat and nothing else. As someone who is responsible for the big picture, I want to personally reassure all citizens out there that combat is just one facet of the game we are making.
I know all the features that are currently in development and we spend a huge time on things that are nothing to do with combat.
For example in 3.23 we should be introducing Freight Elevators which is a long standing feature that should enhance the cargo hauling gameplay loop. We are also pushing for brand new Cargo Hauling missions to greater support this.
Post 3.23 we also have huge plans (not ideas for the next ten years – but tangible plans in action) that we talked about at CitizenCon which will involve lots of non-combat gameplay loops like Base Building and Crafting that will also unlock further missions and loops like Research for crafting blueprints, exploration, scanning and excavation of materials both in space and on planets etc etc – not even including the Dynamic Economy (Quantum).
Combat is one of many core loops that exists in Star Citizen but it is not the only one. So if an ISC or email or segment seems to focus on one aspect of SC – that’s exactly what it is – it's a focus on one aspect, not all of SC.
Also in regards to PvE and PvP – again rest assured that the plan includes systems like Stanton being heavily policed with swift retribution for criminals and shield technology that will protect Landing Zones and stations. This does not mean criminality cannot happen but the risk should be great. Then we will have systems that are lawless like Pyro and those systems will offer greater rewards for traders/haulers but at an increased risk to piracy. All of these systems will come into the game. We will also have some dedicated gameplay just for PvP players in lawless systems but that's for another time.
I also know our community can only react to what you see from us – so hopefully this post gives a little more insight to the bigger picture at hand.
Cheers
