First off, there's no "right" way of doing this. Everyone's experience is slightly different. What may work for some, might not work for others. Personally I think exposure is the best, first step. Find a game engine that works for you. I started with Unreal Engine but it doesn't matter too much. Spend the next month messing around with it. It might seem daunting at first but even just sitting with it open for a minimum of 1 hour a day will help you get used to it.
Start by clicking buttons and seeing what they do. There's a ton of tutorials out there (especially for Unreal) and they're a great way to get started. After a while, you'll get use to the layout and you can start messing around with the tools. If there's a specific area of design you want to get into, look up videos and forum posts on where to begin. (Unreal has some great, in-built design tools).
I think it's also important to keep every project you work on. Over my years of working with Unreal Engine, I've made dozens of different projects and I've kept each one. Not only can you use them in portfolios but they're a great tool for yourself to see how much you've grown as a designer and sometimes even refer back to your old work for solutions to current problems.
Challenge yourself too. Once you're a bit more confident, give yourself a week or two and attempt to make a mechanic. Doesn't have to be anything too difficult, just keep it simple and stick to one mechanic at a time. Not only will this help you learn but you can always use the mechanics in later projects. As an example, before I joined CIG, I would pick out mechanics from Star Citizen that I liked but thought could be done better and attempt to re-create them myself with my own twists. (It didn't go too well but I gave it a try and that's what matters!)
Once you feel you've got a firm grasp of the engine and its tools, have a look online and see if there are any game dev conferences near you. I personally attended Develop:Brighton in the UK in 2022 and that's how I got my job at CIG. These conferences will usually have areas where you can show off your games, mechanics and portfolio. As well as helping you connect and build a network within the industry ( networking is really underrated for some reason )
Hopefully this should give you a good head start. If you have any questions, feel free to reach out.
As I said at the start, we all learn differently, this is just what worked for me.
Finally (and most importantly), don't forget to have fun with it. Game Design/Development can be really exciting, it's an explosion of creativity and imagination. Anything is possible and anyone can do it!
TLDR: Pick a game engine, spend at least 1 hour a day playing around with it, learning its tools and layout. After a month of this, try working on your own project. (Keep it simple to begin with) after a few months of that, build a portfolio and show it off. Don't forget to have fun :slightly_smiling_face:
Kind regards
- King (Level Designer for Squadron 42)
