Hi @JJ2078 -
We answered your question in this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/19850-Loremakers-Community-Questions). Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: Here’s a bunch of questions about the Elira Awards, which recognizes achievement in music.
Answer: We haven't really delved too much into the actual history or structure of the Eliras. It was just a name that sounded good as an award, but let's craft some lore now. To answer some of your questions one by one:
Is it at all possible for a backer to win an Elira Award?
Not currently, but we certainly support the musical endeavors of our community.
What categories are there?
I would assume this would be the standard array of categories that you'd find in modern awards ("Best album (genre)", "Best song (genre)", etc.). I'm sure they'd have various versions of the awards based on the genre of music. There would probably be categories for Xi'an or alien music to help bring attention to Human listeners.
How long have the awards been going for?
We could say maybe a hundred years or so, say 2803.
Who won the last award for best performer (or equivalent)?
Have not determined this yet.
What is popular across the UEE currently?
With all the various planets and systems, I don't know if you could truly encapsulate a consistent trend across the entire UEE. We've name dropped a handful of bands and musicians (Ellroy Cass, Starburst Collective, etc.) though.
What is the most common way for people to listen to music in 2953? Do physical formats still exist, and does that mean I have to buy the White Album again?
As a big fan of vinyl myself, I would support this, but I feel like they've probably phased out physical media since the recording process would probably be exclusively digital and distributed in a lossless way.
Where and when are the awards hosted?
As called out in the Galactapedia article, they're held in Prime on Terra.
Who was the most recent host?
I would probably say Esen Landari from Something Every Tuesday would be a good host.
Have there been any Jay-Z, Taylor Swift moments in memorable history?
What moment was this? But sure, I would imagine there would be some memorable moments at the awards. There was Gal Dougan's last performance before she disappeared, that would certainly be one.
