Hi @Cheshir_RB -
We answered your question in this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/19850-Loremakers-Community-Questions). Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: The more Xi'an ships come out, the less I understand what exactly is meant by MISC's cooperation with Xi'an. What technologies are we talking about? I don't see any connection in ship design or the technology that the Aopoa and the Gatac provide. Please tell me what you mean by "MISC was one of the first corporations in the United Empire of Earth (UEE) to sustain a tech-trade partnership with the Xi'an"?
Answer: In 2910, MISC and the Xi'an Empire signed a first-of-its-kind technology sharing agreement that saw ideas, technology, and even experts freely exchanged between the two sides. MISC's impact and contribution to Xi'an ships isn't well known within the UEE, as the ships Xi'an manufacturers have exported into the UEE lean heavily into the alien aesthetic and tech to distinguish them in the market, so let's focus on the Xi'an’s impact on MISC.
After signing the deal, MISC leveraged this influx of new ideas and tech into developing a smaller spacecraft that could appeal to the masses. This initiative resulted in the design for the Freelancer, which featured traditional Human aesthetics subtly integrated with Xi'an advances like improved thrust/draw conditioning. While the designs for the Reliant were done at the same time, it's believed that it was passed over because the verticality created by its movable "flying wing" clearly signaled its Xi'an inspiration and might alienate some Humans still wary after the Xi’an-Human Cold War. The Reliant design remained mothballed for decades until being revived and brought to market in 2946. By then, MISC had found success with other ships that promoted their Xi'an influence and tech, and the company leveraged what they'd learned to upgrade the Reliant design with more efficient Xi'an thrusters and advanced Xi'an metal composites for the ship's wing armor.
In the decades between the launch of the Freelancer and Reliant, MISC discovered that many of its ship teams struggled to integrate Xi'an tech into their designs. This began to change in 2940 when MISC assigned the MISC-M division of misfits and out-of-the-box designers to rework the Daedalus, MISC's non-commercial racing ship. The MISC-M team traveled to a facility in R.il'a to work on the ship with veteran Xi'an Ship Engineer To.k'o se Lyil, leading to the creation of advanced thrusters that lapped ones available to competing racers. The reworked Daedalus earned itself a new name, Razor, and would go on to win the Murray Cup Classic Race in 2945 before receiving a successful commercial release in 2947. MISC-M continued to push their designs to further integrate Xi'an tech with the creation of the Fury, featuring four fully gimballed main thrusters to provide the speed and evasiveness renowned in many Xi'an ships. The uniqueness of the Fury design inspired MISC CEO Irena Adjei to spin off the MISC-M division into its own sub-brand named Mirai and retroactively rebrand the Razor as a Mirai ship. With the launch of the Mirai brand, the days of subtly integrating Xi'an tech into ships seems to be gone. It should be exciting to see how Mirai leverages this relationship going forward to create more interesting and unique ships that combine Human and Xi'an tech and aesthetics.
