While the options have widened, where we stand there are still significant challenges. Basically there are three options, I'll put their challenges below:
1) Render-to-texture: This is like doing a comms call video wall, with some extra work to track your viewpoint and mirror the content.
a) Mirroring the content is harder than it might sound, because trivially mirroring the mesh also turns it inside out. That can be fixed by switching the culling mode, but (if I remember right) that would mean we need an extra Pipeline State Object compiled for everything that might ever appear in a mirror view.
b) CPU time: we spend quite a lot of CPU work selecting objects in view and delivering them to the GPU. If you placed a mirror in a busy scene, you effectively have to do the same work again in the mirrored direction. This can be mitigated by telling the art teams to only ever place the mirrors in tiny bathrooms etc, but doing so would make them sad.
c) RTT memory: If you go up close to a mirror, you're effectively asking for a full-screen RTT video so we have to allocate all the memory that that entails
2) Portal Trickery: This is like render-to-texture, but instead of being a video screen, the mirror is a clever portal that sees a mirrored copy of the world (this is the Duke Nukem way)
a + b) This has the same problems as render-to-texture
c) Clipping things near the mirror surface: You don't want meshes from the mirror universe poking out into ours, so there's an extra challenge there. Things like fog volumes don't have a precise clipping edge (we already have enough trouble with that) so we might have to solve issues with double-fogging.
3) Ray Tracing: Bounce rays off the mirror, job done
a) Cost: It's impossible to stop the player from filling the screen with a reflective surface, so for a pixel-perfect reflection we'd need 1 ray per pixel dedicated to reflections. We could upscale or do temporal stuff but that means a smeary reflection.
b) Quality: When the GI team gets onto glossy reflections, we're likely to be making some kind of cost/quality trade-off that looks fine on standard shiny-but-imperfect objects, but become strikingly obvious when you have a perfect image of it.
One thing that's unavoidable though, is that when the GI team gets onto glossy reflections, our hands are going to be forced a little. Regardless of whether something's intended as a mirror, super-shiny surfaces are going to start reflecting things. So it's just a question of how good those reflections are going to look, and what we do if we don't like what we see.
