This year's CitizenCon in Manchester is shaping up to be our biggest yet, and we want to make sure you're fully prepared! Below you'll find a list of commonly asked questions surrounding the event, venue, tickets, and more.
►Where is the event taking place?
Manchester Central
Windmill Street, Manchester M2 3GX England
►What time does the show start and end?
As previously shared, Saturday will be a longer day, and Sunday slightly shorter - however don't forget on Sunday, most of us will be migrating over the ENTER ATMOSPHERE event nearby (separate ticket required)
Saturday, October 19 - CitizenCon 2954 DAY 1
- 9:00 AM - Doors Open
- 10:30 AM - Livestream Preshow Starts
- 11:00 AM - Main Show Starts
- 7:15 PM - Main Show Ends
- 9:00 PM - Event Ends
Sunday, October 20 - CitizenCon 2954 DAY 2
- 8:00 AM - Doors Open
- 9:30 AM - Livestream Preshow Starts
- 10:00 AM - Main Show Starts
- 2:15 PM - Main Show Ends
- 2:30 PM - Event Ends
ENTER ATMOSPHERE
This Community-organized event will take place off-site from 4 PM - Midnight. Details here.
►Do you have any information about what content to expect at the convention?
Have a look at the CitizenCon 2954 official page to learn more about the venue's map, and the schedule!
►Will there be a Bar Citizen event outside of the convention this year?
There are a string of community-organized events, which you will NOT want to miss!
Details: barcit.io/2954
►I can’t make it to Manchester, will the event be live-streamed?
Yes. It’s 100% free to watch the live stream – we will be broadcasting live on both Twitch and YouTube.
►Am I allowed to re-broadcast CitizenCon on my own channel?
Yes! Have fun sharing the event with your communities!
►Will you be offering a Digital Goodies Pack?
Yes, and it’s included with each CitizenCon ticket. If you aren’t joining us in person, you can pick up a Digital Goodies Pack separately.
Digital Goodies Packs will be giftable once they’re delivered to your account.
►Will there be a physical swag bag for attendees of the event?
Yes, and it will be included with your CitizenCon ticket. More information on this to come at a later date.
►How will I give the tickets I purchased to my friends/family?
Once tickets have been distributed, you can forward them via email or print them out.
►How and when will tickets be delivered?
Tickets will be emailed to your registered account email closer to the event. If you're buying for friends/family, once tickets have been distributed closer to the event, you'll simply be able to forward them their ticket via email, or print and hand-deliver them.
►What should I bring?
Please remember to bring your printed ticket (or a digital copy stored on your mobile device) and your photo ID.
►Can I come in Cosplay?
Heck yeah! Cosplay is encouraged. In the best interest of security, we will prohibit prop weapons, so please leave those at home.
►Is there an age restriction for attending?
Yes, for CitizenCon (October 19-20), all attendees must be 18 or over.
►Am I able to bring my own food or drink? What about a personal water bottle?
Yes, you are allowed to bring outside food/drinks and personal water bottles. No outside alcohol allowed.
►Is there somewhere to leave my bag and coat?
Yes, all attendees will be encouraged to store their belongings in the visitor’s coat check. That said, we strongly discourage attendees from bringing large bags.
►Is there a Lost and Found?
Yes. Manchester Central keeps lost property for two months. After this time it is given to charity. If you have lost something at Manchester Central, email their team or call 0161 834 2700.
►Will seating be available?
Yes, there will be seating. There will be no assigned seats, and location of seating will be first come first serve.
►Will there be security at the event?
Yes.
►What are the rules concerning in-house photography/recording?
In general, photography and recording are encouraged. However, there may be some areas and aspects of the event that are off-limits in that regard throughout the day. Clear indication of areas where photography is not permitted will be found on-site.
►Is the event wheelchair accessible?
Yes. More information on Manchester Central accessibility accommodations can be found here.
►Will there be a separate line for ADA registration?
Absolutely! Rest assured, there will indeed be a separate line designated specifically for ADA registration, so feel free to approach the staff line with confidence, knowing that we're here to assist you every step of the way!
►If I can no longer attend, can I cancel and get a refund?
No, tickets are non-refundable. Once purchased, they cannot be refunded or exchanged for another event. We recommend ensuring your availability before purchasing tickets. If you have any concerns or questions, please feel free to reach out to our support team for assistance.
