Invictus Launch Week is almost upon us, and to help everyone get the most from the event, we want to answer a few common questions.
Read on for everything you need to know about Invictus, including where to go and how to participate in the upcoming Free Fly event.
What exactly is Invictus Launch Week?
Invictus Launch Week is an event held near the last week of May that marks the beginning of the new recruiting year and the graduation of the latest class of officers and pilots of the United Empire of Earth Navy (UEEN). Though a time to honor those in the Navy and other armed forces for their tireless service to the UEE, aerospace and defense manufacturers across the galaxy also take the opportunity to showcase their vehicles designed for (or influenced by) the military. It allows everyone to see some of Star Citizen's biggest, best, and most iconic ships up close as different manufacturers take over the expo center halls. Plus, almost everything on display is available to test fly for free!
When is Invictus Launch Week taking place?
Starting on May 17 through May 29, different ship manufacturers take over the halls for 48 hours.
What time does the event start?
Invictus Launch Week starts on May 17 at approximately 16:00 UTC (9 AM Pacific).
When does the Free Fly start?
The Free Fly will start on May 17 and end on May 29, simultaneously with the launch of Invictus Launch Week.
Where does the Invictus Launch Week take place? Where do I have to go?
The aerospace and defense manufacturers showcase their vehicles at the Bevic Convention Center, Area18, ArcCorp. You can also get a rare firsthand glimpse at the Navy's fearsome fleet as it makes its way through Stanton and tour an Aegis Idris at each location where it stops.
How do I get to the Bevic Convention Center?
First, you need to head to the planet ArcCorp. If this is your first visit to the Stanton System, you can directly spawn at the habitation building in Area18. If you're already a citizen of the 'verse, jump to ArcCorp, spline jump to Area18, then land at Riker Memorial Spaceport. From there, follow the signs to the Bevic Convention Center. Check out our video on getting to the convention center if you need more assistance!
How do I get to the Idris tour?
During Invictus Launch Week, you can tour an Aegis Idris, so step onboard and explore the new interiors! The Idris moves through Stanton, so citizens around the system will get their chance to enjoy the tour. Head to Everus Harbor above Hurston, Baijini Point above ArcCorp, Port Tressler above microTech, and Orison itself above Crusader to join. To find out its current position, please see the info panels in one of the landing zones.
Where can I see the UEE fleet?
The Navy's fearsome fleet will make its way through Stanton that's bigger and better than ever before. To find out its current position, please see the info panels in one of the landing zones.
I neither have a Star Citizen Game Package nor a spacecraft. How can I travel to ArcCorp and enjoy the Free Fly?
No worries, we got you covered! Invictus Launch Week is the ultimate time to test Star Citizen and the fancy military ships for free - for everyone! We provide every account with an Aegis Avenger Titan as a free loaner to get you to the event and back!
How do I rent a ship?
In the expo center halls, you'll find ships on display from different manufacturers throughout the event. If you see something you'd like to test fly, walk up to the corresponding ship info panel. The ship will become highlighted, and a prompt will pop up when you look at the info panel. Press and hold the F key to RENT. A notification on the screen will appear upon a successful rental.
You can then head to the Space Port or any other ASOP terminal throughout the 'verse. The rented ship will be available for 48 hours.
How long can ships be rented?
You can rent ships as long as they are on display. All manufacturers exhibit their ships for 48 hours. Once you have rented a ship or vehicle, it will be available for 48 hours.
How many ships can be rented?
You can rent every flyable or drivable vehicle exhibited at Invictus Launch Week. Each ship or vehicle can be rented once. During the last 3 days of Invictus Launch Week, all ships will become rentable via the rental kiosks in the Drake hall.
Will there be Warbond CCUs available?
Yes! Check back each day throughout the event to see what's available. Each Warbond CCU Daily Deal will run for 24 hours only. However, this year’s Finale (May 27, 16:00 UTC - May 29, 23:00 UTC) will include a refresh with new Warbond CCUs that will feature only at this time for select manufacturers, and a few select offers from prior days will return.
Will there be quantity stock-limited ships?
Yes! Each stock-limited ship is limited to 1 per account and will be available in three waves to cover as many global time zones as possible. Please note that depending on your time zone, Wave 2 and 3 may occur the next calendar day.
- Wave 1: 16:00 UTC (9 AM Pacific)
- Wave 2: 00:00 UTC (5 PM Pacific)
- Wave 3: 08:00 UTC (1 AM Pacific)
- ILW Day 1 & 2 - May 17 & 18: RSI Constellation Phoenix
- ILW Day 5 & 6 - May 21 & 22: Aegis Idris-P, Aegis Javelin
- ILW Day 9 & 10 - May 25 & 26: Drake Kraken, Drake Kraken Privateer
What ships are available to fly for free?
Each day of Invictus Launch Week, there will be different ships available for you to test fly from the show floor. Check out the full schedule for details.
Do I need a copy of Star Citizen to enjoy Invictus Launch Week?
No. For the duration of the event, anyone can play Star Citizen for free. All you need to do is visit the Play Now page and follow the instructions.
Can I invite a friend?
Of course! All they need to do is visit the Play Now page, create an account, and jump into the game. Don't forget, using your referral code during account creation grants them an additional 5,000 UEC. And if they decide to stay after the Free Fly, you'll earn a referral point.
I am a new player. Where do I get more info?
The New Player Guide is a fantastic first stop with a plethora of tips on how to get started, and the Welcome Hub presents various tutorials to help you get off on the right foot navigating the 'verse. Star Citizen veterans act as informal guides for an ever-growing number of new players in the Guide System. The Knowledge Base answers the most frequent questions in articles that cover everything from how to create an account to character equipment.
Is there a reward for attending Invictus Launch Week 2954?
Yes! If you attend Invictus Launch Week 2954 by logging into the Stanton system at least 3 different days during the event, you'll be rewarded with a Spectrum badge and an in-game Medivac Beacon.
