Hi @jaberwok -
We answered your question in this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/20013-Loremakers-Community-Questions). Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: The Whitley's Guide on the Vulture mentions that:
“In 2932, an Aegis Dynamics Reclaimer, the General Dogsbody, made history with the single most profitable salvage mission in human history when it discovered and recovered a failed 22nd-century colony ship adrift in deep space.”
22nd Century implies a date looking like 21XX; however, Artemis -- the most famous of the interstellar colony ships -- launched in 2232. Was it intended for the discovery to have been a failed 23rd-century colony ship? Or were there other colony ships (interstellar OR only interplanetary in nature) launched before Artemis?
I'm assuming that you did not intend to solve the mystery of the Artemis as a side note in Whitley's Guide... so perhaps we could know more about the other colony ships that were sent, and especially the one that was found here?
Answer: Your instincts are right. Artemis is not the colony ship found and salvaged by General Dogsbody. Artemis was but one of several colony ships Humanity sent into deep space in the late 22nd and early 23rd centuries. Prior to Nick Croshaw becoming the first person to successfully survive a roundtrip through a jump point in 2271, these ventures were seen as Humanity’s best chance at expanding our footprint in the universe. While the Artemis remains the most famous due to the ship being monitored and piloted by Janus, which at the time was the most complex AI system ever created by Humans. The ship’s sudden disappearance fourteen years prior to the expected date led to widespread speculation that the AI was at fault which galvanized anti-AI attitudes and legislation that persists to this day in the UEE. For this reason, Artemis is still remembered in the current UEE and spotlighted by the lore.
The lore hasn’t focused much on the other colony ships, but it’s a potentially rich area for us to dig into. The exact number launched remains a mystery due to several factors, including lost records due to data corruption. Also confusing the matter is that these colony ships were sent by a variety of corporate interests and individual nations in an era before the creation of the United Nations of Earth. Details about most of these ships, including their intended destinations, reasons for going, crew manifests, and supplies onboard, have been lost to time and would hamper the chances of their eventual discovery.
