Hi @Bacchus -
We answered your question in this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/20013-Loremakers-Community-Questions). Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: Does the exploratory division of the Navy compete with the private sector? Are they just looking for strategic advantages & jump points or does it include general exploration? Are they looking for the Krell system? Have they given up on looking for the jump point to Oretani system? Why don't the Navy just pay contractors to do the work? If something is found, does High Command plan to keep it a secret? How many secret jump points are the Navy actively using? Is the UEEN Pathfinders Division the new name for the Navy Exploratory Division or are they the same thing?
Answer: Exploration is an interesting facet of the ‘verse. There are a lot of great observations here across all those questions, so we’ll try to tackle it piece by piece.
First, we’re not 100% sure where the terms “Navy Exploratory Division” or UEEN Pathfinders Division came from. If you have a link to a source, please send it our way. We’ve mentioned Exploratory Squadrons in the Whitley’s Guide for the Terrapin, as well as the UEE Exploratory Services in the introduction of the Idris Corvette. There have also been broad mentions of military pathfinders throughout the years, but we also generically refer to explorers of all stripes as “pathfinders.”
The UEE Exploratory Services are not a branch of the military. The department is tasked with both discovering new systems and surveying those discovered by private pathfinders to evaluate whether it is viable for colonization or another purpose. In their primary function of general exploration, the UEE pathfinders do compete with private sector pathfinders, but exploration is a tricky business and it’s a big universe – so there’s plenty of room for everyone. Some of the pathfinders working for both the UEE and private companies might be freelance, but most organizations would also employ their own staff.
The military in general also operate pathfinding patrols, and are usually involved in exploring systems that have intrinsic military value, such as ones that lead into known Vanduul systems. Any such jump points would absolutely be kept secret, so there’s no telling how many are in use.
As far as the Krell system is concerned, we can neither confirm nor deny. If the UEE were to be looking for it, they wouldn’t be doing it publicly, as it would likely antagonize our Xi’an friends. Lastly, regarding the Oretani system, enough time has passed that there’s not as much enthusiasm around the search for it, so it’s likely that most efforts have died down, but there’s always hope.
