Here's some answers!
About shops and animals/creatures:
Our plan is to make this "Bazaar" modular. If a player wants to specialize into a merchandise type, or on the contrary, diversify his offer, that's his choice and will allow him/her to be different from other players.
In the same way, if we allow the player later on to capture/buy/kill creatures in the future, it would make sense to be allowed to sell those.
The goal is still to separate the negotiation room (still overlooking the cargo area) from this marketplace. The former is for VIPs who would have access to some kind of guest room (currently in the design whitebox), and they would be here to buy special items or something bigger and/or something a bit harder to advertise.
To quote @DHaddock_CIG  on the slave question as well as the "hookah" (pic related) :
While they do have a form of indentured servitude, this wouldn’t necessarily be a staple of every Banu. The various Guilds (what we call Soulis) might have some employees who they’ve bought, but only specific Guilds would ‘sell’ people, so a Merchantman would have a ‘slave shop’ if they were a Guild/Souli that dealt in slaves).
They would probably have a communal drinking/brewing pot called a slomaddon in the negotiation room as it’s a custom to share a drink before talking business.
Again, as said earlier in this thread, this post is only for features or details we are pretty sure of. Some other parts, like the exterior look or its manoeuvrability stats, as well as more interior or mechanics details are dependent on the next phases of development (art re-concept, setup, balancing, etc). Unfortunately, you will have to wait on another video or article later on to get more information.
Your feedback has been heard and we keep looking regularly at what the players say and want, and even if we don't necessarily reply or might go in a different direction, we take this into consideration.
Thanks again for your enthusiasm about Star Citizen and the Banu Merchantman!
