Heyho o7
I'm Nobel and the associate producer for the Tools team who made the CTL (Cloud Test Launcher). Most of my team are not very active in the spectrum, but I try to give better late than no answer here to some things I can answer you :smile:
1. + 2. + 3. We did improve the tool itself, with a couple features, but nothing really worth to mention in detail. CTL itself is not doing the tests (Like sending out the clients to certain places etc.) CTL is a as in the name a launcher, it launches for the QA users of it the amount of requested clients on a server. Beforehand they prepare over scripts the tasks for the clients. Those being then assigned to groups and can be activated with commands. so, for this we have a group of QA who write those testing scripts to test the features they have in their test plan. I do not have exact knowledge what they are testing, but they use it regularly.
The QA team will boot up groups of users this was especially used for the first Server Meshing tests and still are, as well for looking into the increasing of player numbers. So before the avocados tested it, we had already CTL running tests with larger groups of clients joining servers.
The main improvements we did in the last 10 months were mostly in the optimization of the tool, shortening boot up times and saving time wherever possible.
4. The QA team using this, is already doing large tests with it, so we already can improve on the results we get. But what and how they do it, would be a question for the QA/Game Devs themselves.
5. Not sure if this action itself was tested, but we did simulate much more than 150 players with CTL.
6. Best to ask the QA, as they do the tests.
Would love to give more detailed answers, but in terms of what got tested exactly and how they use it I cannot answer unfortunately as I simply don't know. Maybe another dev of the respective teams see it?
Cheers
Nobel
Edit - PS: Cool to see that actually some folks are interested in the tools, we are often really hidden in the background :smile:
