Hi there,
Jump Points is a big feature, there is a lot going on in the design, more than could be communicated in one ISC, so there is some bits of info that I realised afterwards that we managed to gloss over and some of these seemed to have caused a lot of speculation/controversies, so I'd like to attempt to rectify some of those and clarify some others.
Transient Jump Points do not have or use ATCs.  Transient Jump Points are free for all experiences, you align, tune and the activate the Jump Point and then are pulled in.
As you can see from Transient Jump Points. The inclusion of ATC in the permanent Jump Points flow is not a technical requirement needed for transitioning players between systems or anything like that. They are part of the flow solely for gameplay reasons. The ATC exists here for fairness to all jumpers, a fairness intentionally omitted in the Transient flow.  The permanent Jump Points will likely be busy high volume routes. We don't want slower ships being trumped to jump by faster ships all the time, we also want to make sure we protect those ships who have waited and determine who is at fault for doing something obstructive, ATC will help us do this.
Additionally the ATC exists to imply and actually impose some level of decision making on those who choose to skirt the law or play outright criminally.   Those player may instead choose or have to seek out Transient Jump Points to make their journeys in order to avoid this extra scrutiny.
I also want to clarify how ATC also makes sense as part of a bigger picture.  Think of Permanent Jump Points as known controlled border checkpoints between systems. If you were the UEE authority in charge of protecting a system like Stanton from lawless systems that you know you border with, like Pyro, would you operate an open borders with them? I don't think you would, you'd find a way to control it.
In this sense ATC is being used as the gate keeper. How does it do that I see you all asking. If ATC hasn't granted you permission to jump yet then by default they actively jam jump drives from tuning. Once you have permission to jump they selectively choose to stop jamming your jump drive, which then lets you tune and jump, simple.
Edit:
I need to clarify this statement about "shooting of the Jump Point" as the way I have worded this before was incorrect of the facts.
There is no error in the footage in the ISC episode, and what you see is not a gun shooting the jump point to activate it. This is the VFX we have at this moment in time for the activation step and what you see is how it functions in the game at this moment in time. After activation the ripple wave completes across the ship and then launches as a projectile from the front of the ship. At no point do we show the projectile coming from a gun. It didn't happen.  We haven't added combat to opening a Jump Point.
That there are guns incidentally located at the front of the ship that was used is unfortunate. There are guns on a fair number of vehicles. In hindsight we could have used a different ship with less weaponry, and we'll note that for any revisitation, but it doesn't change that we do NOT show the projectile coming from a gun. We show it working EXACTLY how we were able to get it to work on a Vanguard at this moment in time.
Thanks for reading,
Edward Fuller, Senior Principal System Designer
