Happy Wednesday, everyone!
Every two weeks, we accompany the Roadmap update with a brief explanatory note to give you insight into the decision-making that led to any changes. This is part of an effort to make our communications more transparent, more specific, and more insightful for all of you who help to make Star Citizen and Squadron 42 possible.
With that said, let’s go ahead and dive into this week’s Roadmap Roundup!
-CIG Community Team
## Notable Changes for July 24, 2024
The following cards have been added to Release View, targeting a release with Alpha 4.0:
RSI Zeus MkII CL
Building, balancing, and implementing RSI's small multi-crew cargo ship, the Zeus MkII CL, into the game.
Acidic Caves
Implementing the acidic cave archetype, coming to both the Pyro and Stanton systems. Adorned with luminous pools of water and dramatic stalactites and stalagmites, these caves provide a captivating setting for exploration, FPS missions, missing person missions, and more.
Rock Caves
Implementing the rock cave archetype, coming to both the Pyro and Stanton systems. Illuminated by bioluminescent mushrooms, these caves provide a unique atmosphere for exploration, FPS missions, missing person missions, and more.
Asteroid Bases
Implementing new asteroid bases scattered across space in asteroid clusters, gas clouds, and other areas of Pyro. From exploration-type gameplay to mission-based locations, these bases include both constrained interiors for potential FPS conflicts as well as space combat while reaching or fleeing from the location.
Space Stations - Contested Zones
Contested Zones are a location feature coming to Pyro's space stations, introducing FPS gameplay with various layouts tailored for this purpose. The zones will feature a progression system requiring tokens to unlock different zones, giving access to the loot inside. Collecting all of the tokens will allow a player to open the final door and claim the grand prize.
That's all for this week! Join the discussion below, and check out the Roadmap Companion Guide for more information on the Star Citizen Public Roadmap: https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/transmission/18532-The-Public-Roadmap-Companion
