Hi @TheAstroPub -
We answered your question in this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/20168-Loremakers-Community-Questions). Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: There appears to be a timeline issue with the new stations in Pyro. This is from the Galactapedia post on R&R ->
"Rest & Relax is a Human company that maintains a chain of hospitality waystations throughout human space. Engineer Johann Alejandre founded Rest & Relax as a single rest stop in the Baker system in 2901."
This is from the Galactapedia post on the Pyro System -
"Discovered in 2493 by Pyrotechnic Amalgamated, it was not claimed by the United Nations of Earth (UNE) due in part to the dangers surrounding its star. Instead, it was exploited by corporate interests until the 2560s, when the potential resources extracted from the system stopped outweighing the increased cost of maintaining equipment under a volatile sun. Pyro became a haven for outlaws by the early 2600s."
Now the issue comes from timing. If R&R was founded in 2901, then how did the stations in the Pyro System, which was abandoned in the early 2600's, get built?
There are 3 possibilities I can think of:
#1: They built the stations knowing full well that they were building in a hostile outlaw territory and then inevitably were taken over and they had to abandon them.
#2: R&R is an old brand that was once popular and then revived by Johann Alejandre in 2901, like how some old brands for gas stations get revived for nostalgia. So the Stations in Pyro are older stations from the original R&R brand.
The 3rd is tricky because I also found this information when looking up the stations and specifically Rough & Ready.
"Rough & Ready is a major criminal organization known for operating refueling stations throughout the Pyro system. Founded by former Headhunters enforcer Rook Garavis in 2939, the gang's early focus was to pull back on active criminal activity and gain enough capital to do more than just survive. They conducted a series of meticulously planned raids on multiple refueling stations, taking them over and establishing themselves as the off-market version of Rest & Relax. By the 2940s, their refueling stations had become a dominant force in Pyro."
This seems to indicate that Rough & Ready just stole the signage and brand from R&R to use for their own off brand refueling stations. It can also be read that they simply took over stations that were already R&R branded and just adopted the brand since so much of the stations look like just dirty versions of the stations we already have in Stanton. In short, why are R&R branded stations in Pyro?
Answer: Rest & Relax does not have any official stations in Pyro. Stations in the system were constructed centuries ago, primarily by Pyrotechnic Amalgamated and other long gone corporate and research interests. All were eventually abandoned by their official owners and overtaken by a carousel of squatters and gangs.
Rough & Ready is part of the current crop of gangs that have wrestled some of these stations under their control. Upon the gang’s founding by the outlaw known as Rook in 2939, the Rough & Ready gang co-opted Rest & Relax's initials and iconography, as described in this section of the group's portfolio:
"One of Rook’s first orders after overtaking those first three stations was for the gang to tag each one with a symbol everyone would know, the double R logo used by the Rest & Relax franchise. Rook wanted the gang’s ambitions to be clear and knew that referencing the popular Rest & Relax franchise would make people associate them with refueling."
Coasting on the coattails of Rest & Rest seemed like a smart business and brand strategy for the Rough & Ready. Seeing or hearing R&R will make people think of refueling and the association might even convince some that it's a 'nicer' or more 'legitimate' gang. Pretty sure the real Rest & Relax corporation is none too thrilled about this. Wouldn't be surprised to see their name on a list of corporate donors funding groups, like Citizens for Prosperity, vowing to clean up the outlaw issue in Pyro.
