Hi @Bacchus -
We answered your question in this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/20168-Loremakers-Community-Questions). Adding our answer here too so it lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: I'm confused on Castra System’s status with the empire. Has the planet of Cascom been admitted into the UEE as an officially recognized planet? My understanding is that if a planet has been given a name, it is because it is officially recognized. However, there seems to be conflicting information. Below is a copy/paste from the Galactic Guide:
"It was President Novoselov’s hope that he would see Castra II earn representation in his lifetime, but sadly his transition from President to planetary Governor never came to pass, and the planet has yet to earn its senatorial seat."
Is Cascom in some sort of governmental limbo? Are the people of Cascom protected by the Advocacy?
Answer:  Castra is a UEE system which means that all the worlds, including Cascom, are considered UEE territory. The people living there are still protected by the military and the Advocacy, and are covered by the UEE's common laws. However, since Cascom is unrepresented, this means that they do not have any senators representing the planet and do not have a direct say in the governance of the empire.
Typically, as the population on these unrepresented planets begins to grow, the UEE will dispatch political advisors to counsel the planets in the construction of their planetary government, encouraging them to emulate the Governor's Council structure of represented worlds. Instead of countries, planets are divided into territories referred to as states which are managed by one hundred elected Representatives and a Governor. A Governor is an elected position with a six-year term (two-term limit), which can be filled by a Citizen or even a Civilian (the highest political rank a Civilian can achieve). The Governors of all the states meet in the Council to settle disputes and create planet-wide laws.
When a planet reaches a certain population size or ascends to a certain level of influence, the Governors’ Council can petition for formal recognition and the right to be represented in the Senate. So, while Cascom has applied for representation in the past and were denied, they will most likely try again in a few years.
