Well - what can I say - it's difficult to create all the audio for a game that's still in flux.  We can only do so much!  Essentially what you're asking for is for the game to be entirely sound designed, again, with a system that is far more complex to engineer than it is to think of usage scenarios, at least at this moment in time.
As I said in my reply, we're working on the audio propagation system so we can do structure-borne sound.  It's difficult to engineer such a system because all the bulkheads, walls, doors - they're not real, in that they don't necessarily contain all the information that informs how sound should propagate through them.  Your ideas may well be valid but what you're talking about has not been done to that extent before in a real-time context.  We're working on that.  (Having studied a fair bit of NASA spacewalk footage, I think you'd find that a lot of what you're talking about is fairly exaggerated in movies - yes, even the 'real' sound of space is not particularly real either!).
Incidentally, what sound would a thruster-based vehicle make if it wasn't a whoosh?  That's broadband energy being amplitude modulated as it would be, in atmosphere.  If we put another sound on that - say a sine-tone - you'd have no idea what it mapped to, it'd be removed from the mental model of a thruster; it's too abstract.  It may be more accurate in some way by being a narrower sound, but you'd end up with a soundscape that'd sound more like an experimental electronic piece, with no idea of what went with what.  So there's a conceptual problem there.  SoundSim is modelling the atmospheric transfer of sonic energy, and it's entirely possible those thrusters sound exactly like they should so that you have an idea of what's going on.  When Hollywood was coming up with those sounds for space (outside of 2001 which did the sort of job you're talking about) - they played up to associations people have with the sort of action they're seeing, indeed, but those ideas came from how similar mechanisms sounded in the real world.
What might be interesting - I'd recommend pulling your SFX fader down to zero and seeing how you get on in the meantime, as that will give you some idea of how it'd actually sound, bearing in mind there's not much atmosphere going on inside the full-body suits in Star Citizen. :slightly_smiling_face:
