There's two main reasons:
- Each instance is hosted by a Dedicated Game Server, if every player of the Swarm modes wanted to play solo while online we'd be in a lot of trouble :stuck_out_tongue:
- Some game modes are simply not fun without a critical mass of players. For Control we observe this to be around 6 players, Elimination 3-4 for example. We originally required these numbers of players for the game to start but observed that players are generally impatient, most players wont wait more than 10-15 seconds before moving on if they face a "Waiting for Players" screen, often not allowing games to start rolling. Some good news on that below.
For 4.0.0, and already active in the EPTU, we've made some improvements to the pre-game. Firstly, all game modes that feature a pre-game now allow movement. We've recovered "ForceRespawn" so most game modes that allow pre-game movement now ForceRespawn the player to reset them and things around them - this only applies to those already spawned, if you choose not to spawn you can continue customizing/selecting vehicles/equipment. We've reduced the amount of game modes that use "ForceSpawn" (this is where you'd be forcibly spawned upon game start).
Finally, both ForceRespawn & ForceSpawn have moved to the start of the countdown, rather than when the game's main-phase actually begins. This allows players to fully spawn and be properly prepared for the match-start.
For now the required player-count will stay the same at 2 in most game modes, but we hope to eventually increase these as we monitor player activity and further improve the pre-game to provide entertainment while more players connect.
One other thing worth mentioning to help your situation of wanting to find a match on less populated regions is we are aiming to provide match and/or player population statistics for regions and modes on the frontend for quicker matchmaking. We've sent the service requests and still discussing exactly how we'd want to communicate it but want to make it as easy as possible to find active players until we have a different method of matchmaking!
Finally! I highly recommend hitting up spectum channels to find players to play with! Whenever I am after some crew members I ask there or other platforms, always someone wanting to join in on the fun!
