Hello everyone!
We wanted to provide a small update before we get too far into the winter break so we’re starting this thread and will be periodically dropping additional information here as it becomes available.
As many of you have noticed, the 4.0 Preview Environment has experienced numerous issues, some of which have been cleared up and some that have not. Since opening the environment, our teams have been keeping an eye on how things are progressing to ensure we tackle emergent issues to the best of our ability.
While we will aim to have a more in-depth breakdown after the Holiday, here is a brief list of some of the significant issues that have had corrective action taken so far:
- Global Lag – Once players were jumping into the live scaled environment, we discovered that some aspects of typical player behavior were spamming the infrastructure more than expected. A series of hotfixes were deployed to reduce these systems' impact, resulting in improved interactions responsiveness and faster login queue times.
- Missions – Next up, the mission service encountered degraded performance after players had been engaging in missions post launch. After the source of the issue was identified, another corrective hotfix was applied.
- Hangar Spawn – It was discovered that the very recent change to allow players to spawn directly in the Hangar has had some unintended reduction in overall performance of the backend infrastructure. Spawning directly in the Hangar has been temporarily disabled so we can monitor the environment without this added load and ensure that this is the only cause of this issue.
In addition to these, we are currently in the middle of rolling out services updates aimed at optimizing Reputation and Mission services, Social system improvements, preventing concurrent unstows of Hangars, and safeguarding against the current leading cause of Hybrid crashes.
The RSI Knowledge Base also has a list of known issues which can be found here:
https://support.robertsspaceindustries.com/hc/en-us/articles/28595368580375-Star-Citizen-Alpha-4-0-Known-Issues
If the issue you’re encountering most frequently is not listed in this thread or on the KB, rest assured we are tracking many more issues and are prioritizing and fixing them as swiftly as we can.
As always, while we are monitoring Spectrum, Reddit, and other social media platforms, the most reliable way to help us identify priority fixes will be through engagement on the RSI Issue Council.
https://issue-council.robertsspaceindustries.com/projects/STAR-CITIZEN
Thank you all for your continued support and we look forward to improving the 4.0 Preview experience in the days to come!
## Updates:
2024-12-26 0530 UTC - We've begun rolling out a Hotfix to mitigate the leading Hybrid crash. This should greatly reduce the chances of encountering a black screen.
2025-01-04 0630 UTC - Corrective action has been taken against accounts known to be in a "Shard Locked" state. In addition, hotfixes have been applied to greatly reduce the risk of accounts entering into this state.
More Info: https://robertsspaceindustries.com/spectrum/community/SC/forum/1/thread/4-0-preview-update-shard-locked-accounts
