Hi @SattaiLanfear -
We answered your question in this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/20364-Loremakers-Community-Questions). Adding our answer so it also lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: With the coming ability to acquire blueprints and create our own ripoff or improved versions of popular manufacturers' weapons, ships and other goods, how does IP law work in the UEE?
If I was Crusader and spent a billion credits designing the Hercules, I think I would be pretty unhappy to see an unaffiliated group with a base on Hurston had assembled one out of low quality materials, and even slapped our logo on it as though we stand behind their construction quality. Will constructing items with established manufacturers require some sort of license fee? Does Crusader have the ability to declare you a counterfeiter and put a bounty on your head? Or does the UEE not have any formal laws for protecting such things, and it's more "if you can successfully steal the plans, that's a them problem, they should have secured their facility/data better"?
Answer: The commerce laws of the UEE have evolved by the 30th century to be relatively open and have severely limited copyright enforcement. Part of this is that as fabrication technology got more advanced, companies were dealing with a flood of knock-off products that were watering down their own brand recognition. While illegal, it was extremely difficult to police. In an effort to combat this, it became more common for large manufacturers to offer official blueprints to help ensure that products met their own base specifications. In this way, fabricated products are no longer seen as counterfeit but as equivalent with the versions made by the manufacturers.
Though, it should be understood that fabrication is not a complete free-for-all. These blueprints have heavy data-protection on them to prevent widespread sharing. This means for most people they acquire blueprints by purchasing them, though some are fortunate enough to receive them as a gift (or even luckier, find an unbound copy). Additionally, some blueprints may be limited use or have locked production capabilities, limiting how frequently they can be used.
Overall though, most of the general population (i.e. the 90% of people who are not players) are content to purchase items rather than attempt printing them for themselves. Sure, you could make a Whamburger at home, but rather than having to source all the ingredients, it's much easier to head down to the local chain and just buy it. This is even more so the case with items as complex as a ship. Obtaining all the resources is quite involved. Worth it for anyone who really wants fine control over the final product, but for most civilians in the 'verse, buying direct from the manufacturer is the obvious choice.
