Hi @Abriael -
We answered your question in this installment of Loremakers: Community Questions (https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/spectrum-dispatch/20364-Loremakers-Community-Questions). Adding our answer so it also lives in this thread. Thanks for the question!
Question: The Vanduul can reach Terra with three jumps and pass through undefended systems. From Virgil they can go to Nyx, from Nyx to Pyro, and from Pyro strike Terra. How does the faction pushing for Terra to become the capital of the UEE justify their system of choice being so exposed to Vanduul attack?
It's obvious that having your capital so easily available for a deadly enemy to strike, even from smaller raiding parties, would be incredibly unpopular, and an obvious objection to the faction arguing Earth should remain the UEE capital. That's basically begging for a decapitating attack. While yes, it is also possible to reach Sol in three jumps from Caliban, an incursion would have to pass through Croshaw, a heavily fortified system, which should make an enormous difference in terms of defensibility and force projection.
Answer: Terra being three jumps from Vanduul space would be a lesser concern to those in the pro-Terra camp. For them, the greatest threats to the UEE come from within, like entrenched powers on Earth styming progress for their own self-interest/preservation. This isn't surprising considering that the pro-Terra movement actually predates Humanity's first encounter with the Vanduul in 2681. Prior to that in 2638, Terran governor Assan Kieren brought the pro-Terra movement into the mainstream by proposing that the system secede from the UEE. Following the fall of the Messers, the position evolved into moving the UEE capital to Terra. This policy became a cornerstone of the Transitionalist Party thanks to the influence of Clement Redfield, who believed former Messer loyalists were a more pressing threat than the Vanduul.
If the concern is raised to a supporter of Terra, they could argue, as you already pointed out, that Sol is also three systems away from Vanduul space. And, if such an attack comes, would it not be better to fight the Vanduul in an unclaimed system that's lightly populated and developed? Better to fight in Pyro or Nyx where there will be less collateral damage and civilian deaths than Croshaw.
