Hi everyone,
We wanted to take a moment to update you on the current experience and where our focus is as we work toward improving 4.0.1 and beyond.
As we mentioned in the Letter from the Chairman in December, our top priority is playability - ensuring that your experience in the ‘verse is as smooth and enjoyable as possible. That means dedicating all our resources to improving stability, addressing critical issues, and delivering meaningful quality-of-life updates.
With that in mind, we've made the decision to forgo the Red Festival Free Fly. This reinforces what we said in December: Star Citizen needs to work, and it needs to work well. Right now, our focus is on continued hotfixes and subsequent patches to bring the experience to a much better place.
While there’s no single patch that will instantly get us to where we want to be, 4.0.1 was an important first step. It included a massive list of fixes, but some of the nastier issues impacting your experience remain. Below, you'll find a list of some of our top-priority issues currently being worked on. This isn’t an exhaustive list - many other issues are being tackled in parallel - but we want to be transparent about where our efforts are focused in the short term.
We’ll continue to keep you updated through Patch Notes and additional update posts like this one as we have more to share.
## Overarching Topics
Elevator in the Room
We've rolled out a number of transit fixes, however elevators (and occasionally trams) remain a major pain point in the overall experience. These issues can trap players in locations, preventing basic access to the game, which is why they remain one of our highest priorities in every patch cycle. The team has a bright spotlight on these issues right now and is actively working toward more reliable fixes for this.
Character Stowing and Repair
We recently deployed a fix for the most severe character stowing issue, which caused error 60030 and locked players out of the game. However, players still frequently get stuck in specific shards, which exacerbates other issues - especially since logging out and back in is a common workaround for various bugs. Additionally, character repair does not consistently resolving stowing problems. We are actively investigating this.
Hangar Woes
Since the implementation of instanced hangars, there have been a variety of problems with the reliability and playability of this system. From hangar lifts that clip and damage player's ships, to not storing ships properly after arrival (gets stuck in “unknown” or “destroyed” states), doors not opening and closing correctly, losing your personal hangar completely, and overlapping with other players both physically and on audibly.
Load Times and Initial Load
With 4.0.0, load times have increased, especially when loading into Pyro. Combined with ongoing login errors, this has resulted in players spending extended time on loading screens with low confidence of getting into the game.
Mission Issues
The mission system underwent a refactor with 4.0.0, temporarily reducing the number of available missions. However, we are still seeing familiar issues, including:
- AI not spawning at mission locations (both ship and FPS AI)
- Mission sharing and reputation inconsistencies
- Concerns about time vs. reward balance, especially for group play
Quantum Travel and Starmap
Quantum travel continues to experience frequent disruptions, including repeated starts and stops, forcing players to retry jumps multiple times, alongside an ongoing issue where fuel states don’t always sync properly between server meshes. These are areas we’re actively investigating to reduce frustration and improve reliability.
LTP and Keeping What You Earn
The system has become unreliable, with frequent reports of lost items, ships, and money. While each case is investigated individually, underlying loopholes and complexities impact overall reliability. Since this pertains to progression and respecting player time, it's a critical issue and top priority.
Additional Fixes
As mentioned above, this is not an exhaustive list - many other bugs are being addressed and investigated in parallel. A few examples include:
- Mineables taking too long to fully load in
- Invulnerable actors, which can include both AI and players
- Freight Elevators at outposts becoming stuck and impeding missions
- Collision issues where players may clip through a ship, the floor, etc.
- Power allocation issues setting ship power to 0 or off randomly
- Inability to equip some components discovered in Contested Zones
- And more...
The Issue Council and You
Your contributions to the Issue Council have been an incredibly helpful so far - keep it coming! Sharing your experiences - especially with clear evidence, clips, examples, and repro steps when possible, greatly helps our team in investigating and reviewing issues.
Keep a close eye on Spectrum for upcoming hotfixes and updates - we're actively tracking incoming hotfixes here.
Further to this, next Thursday, Feb 6th on a special two-hour SCL, Jared Huckaby will be joined by CTO Benoit Beausejour to go deeper into these issues covered above, what’s causing them, what’s being done, and how our feature and stability plans for 2025 will build over the year to restore the functionality and quality of life to the persistent universe that we all want.
As always, thank you for your support and participation, both in-game and out - we couldn’t do this without you!
