Invictus Launch Week is nearly upon us, and to help everyone get the most from the event, we want to answer a few common questions.
Read on for everything you need to know about Invictus, including where to go and how to participate in the upcoming Free Fly event.
What exactly is Invictus Launch Week?
Invictus Launch Week is an event held near the last week of May that marks the beginning of the new recruiting year and the graduation of the latest class of officers and pilots of the United Empire of Earth Navy (UEEN). Though a time to honor those in the Navy and other armed forces for their tireless service to the UEE, aerospace and defense manufacturers across the galaxy also take the opportunity to showcase their vehicles designed for (or influenced by) the military. It allows everyone to see some of Star Citizen's biggest, best, and most iconic ships up close as different manufacturers display their finest in the expo center halls. Plus, almost everything on display is available to test fly for free!
When is Invictus Launch Week taking place?
Invictus Launch Week takes place from May 15 through May 27.
What time does the event start?
Invictus Launch Week starts on May 15 at approximately 16:00 UTC (9 AM Pacific).
When does the Free Fly start?
The Free Fly will start on May 15, simultaneously with the launch of Invictus Launch Week, and ends on May 27.
Where does the Invictus Launch Week take place? Where do I have to go?
The aerospace and defense manufacturers showcase their vehicles at the Bevic Convention Center, Area18, ArcCorp. You can also tour an iconic Aegis Idris at its spectacular vantage point over the city.
How do I get to the Bevic Convention Center?
First, you need to head to the planet ArcCorp. If this is your first visit to the Stanton System, you can directly spawn at the habitation building in Area18. If you're already a citizen of the 'verse, jump to ArcCorp, spline jump to Area18, then land at Riker Memorial Spaceport. From there, follow the signs to the Bevic Convention Center.
How do I get to the Aegis Idris tour?
During Invictus Launch Week, you can tour an Aegis Idris, so step onboard this iconic ship and feel the military might of the UEE! To join the Aegis Idris Experience, head to IO-North Tower (accessible via ArcCorp Plaza), where you will find the Idris docked at the very top. This is an unguided, self-serviced tour, so you can take your time and explore this behemoth at your leisure!
I neither have a Star Citizen Game Package nor a spacecraft. How can I travel to ArcCorp and enjoy the Free Fly?
No worries, we got you covered! Invictus Launch Week is the ultimate time to test Star Citizen and the fancy military ships for free - for everyone! We provide every account with an Aegis Avenger Titan as a free loaner to get you to the event and back!
Besides checking out ships and the Aegis Idris Experience, what else is there to do at Invictus Launch Week?
There are activities galore for pilots of all experience levels to participate in. Aspiring pilots can learn the ropes in the UEE Training Exercises (and unlock a reward while doing so), while seasoned flyers can take on high-stakes missions designed to push their limits and show what they're really made of. Also, keep your eyes open for scrips in the expo hall; these can be turned in to Wikelo for favors.
Where can I see the UEE fleet?
The Navy's fearsome fleet is needed elsewhere and is currently out for deployment. It won't be making an appearance this Invictus Launch Week.
What ships are available to fly for free?
Each day of Invictus Launch Week, there will be different ships available for you to test fly. Check out the full schedule for details.
How do I rent a ship?
n the expo center halls, you’ll find ships on display from a variety of manufacturers throughout the event. If something catches your eye, head over to the Traveler Rentals terminals in the main Invictus hall during that vehicle’s Manufacturer Day and follow the on-screen prompts to take it for a spin.
In addition to the ships on the show floor, each Manufacturer Day also unlocks a wider selection of flyable ships, some of which aren’t on display but are still available to rent through the terminals. Manufacturers cycle almost every day, so be sure to check back often! You can visit the full schedule to plan your test flights.
You can then head to the Space Port or any other ASOP terminal throughout the 'verse.
How long can ships be rented?
Once you have rented a ship or vehicle, it will be available for 48 hours.
How many ships can be rented?
You can rent every flyable or drivable vehicle exhibited at Invictus Launch Week. Each ship or vehicle can be rented once.
Will there be Warbond Daily Deals available?
Yes! Check back each day throughout the event to see what's available. Each Warbond Daily Deal will run for 24 hours only. This year’s Finale (May 26, 16:00 UTC - May 27, 20:00 UTC) will include a refresh with new Warbond Deals that will feature only at this time for select manufacturers and a few select offers from prior days may return.
Will there be quantity stock-limited ships?
Yes! Each stock-limited ship is limited to 1 per account and will be available in three waves to cover as many global time zones as possible. Please note that depending on your time zone, Wave 2 and 3 may occur the next calendar day.
▲ Wave 1 - 16:00 UTC (9 AM Pacific)
▲ Wave 2 - 00:00 UTC (5 PM Pacific)
▲ Wave 3 - 08:00 UTC (1 AM Pacific)
► Starting on May 15 (ILW Day 1): Aegis Idris-P, Aegis Javelin
► Starting on May 17 (ILW Day 3): RSI Constellation Phoenix
► Starting on May 25 (ILW Day 11): Drake Kraken, Drake Kraken Privateer
The wait is over - the legendary Aegis Idris-P is taking to the skies! To celebrate this long-anticipated capital ship becoming flyable, we’re extending with additional waves.
A limited number of Idris Frigates are available to Chairman’s Club members only and are restricted to one per account. Stock will be available in a total of six waves to cover as many global time zones as possible.
► Starting on May 15:
▲ Wave 1 - 16:00 UTC
▲ Wave 2 - 00:00 UTC (May 16)
▲ Wave 3 - 08:00 UTC
▲ Wave 4 - 16:00 UTC
▲ Wave 5 - 00:00 UTC (May 17)
▲ Wave 6 - 08:00 UTC
Will there be a Drake DefenseCon this year?
There will be no in-game Drake DefenseCon this year; word on the street is that Drake Interplanetary has... overstayed their welcome on ArcCorp. But, true to form, Drake has found a way to let everyone test fly and pledge for their ships on Day 11 of Invictus Launch Week. They're simply not allowed in the expo hall this year.
Do I need a copy of Star Citizen to enjoy Invictus Launch Week?
No. For the duration of the event, anyone can play Star Citizen for free. All you need to do is visit the Free Fly page and follow the instructions.
Can I invite a friend?
Of course! All they need to do is visit the Play Now page, create an account, and jump into the game. Don't forget, using your referral code during account creation grants them an additional 5,000 UEC. And if they decide to stay after the Free Fly, you'll earn a referral point. Plus, you and the friends you refer get a Kruger Intergalactic P-52 Merlin as a referral bonus!
I am a new player. Where do I get more info?
The New Player Guide is a fantastic first stop with a plethora of tips on how to get started, and the Welcome Hub presents various tutorials to help you get off on the right foot navigating the 'verse. Star Citizen veterans act as informal guides for an ever-growing number of new players in the Guide System. The Knowledge Base answers the most frequent questions in articles that cover everything from how to create an account to character equipment.
