Hello everyone,
As part of Invictus Launch Week 2955, we’re introducing ship naming for the Aegis Idris. As has been the case with our previous iteration of ship naming, the Aegis Idris will now be able to display a player-assigned name on the hull.
Ship naming rights for the Aegis Idris will be granted based on the date the pledge was acquired. On Tuesday, May 27th, we’ll open up naming for original (2012) concept pledges and Golden Ticket holders before inviting the next waves over the following days. This cycle honors early backers and gives the new Idris naming system a chance to cool down between waves. If you're a proud pilot of an Idris-M or Idris-P, have a look at the wave overviews below to find out when you can name your ship. For ships that have been melted and reclaimed, the buyback date is used to determine wave access.
Aegis Idris Naming Waves
- Wave 1: May 27th-29th 4 PM UTC / 9 AM Pacific (2012 pledges + Golden Ticket holders)
- Wave 2: May 30th-June 1st 4 PM UTC / 9 AM Pacific (2013 pledges)
- Wave 3: June 2nd-June 4th 4 PM UTC / 9 AM Pacific  (2014, 2015, 2016 pledges)
- Wave 4: June 5th-June 7th 4 PM UTC / 9 AM Pacific (2017, 2018, 2019, 2020 pledges)
- Wave 5: June 8th-June 10th 4 PM UTC / 9 AM Pacific (2021, 2022, 2023, 2024 pledges)
- Wave 6: June 11th-June 13th 4 PM UTC / 9 AM Pacific (2025 pledges and Invictus Launch Week 2955 pledges)
## FAQ
How do I name my Idris?
Our Ship Naming FAQ has all the info you need on this process. The naming itself is done via the Hangar on the website. Names can be changed at any time, but your ship can only hold one name at a time.
Can I change the name I've chosen?
While you can change the name as often as you like during this iteration of ship naming, it's important to note that this is only temporary. Also, keep in mind that once you change the name, the old name is released and available for others! We are currently reviewing various options to limit the ability to change ship names infinitely, such as a cooldown and/or a small fee (similar to how handle changes work currently), as naming your ship is intended to be a meaningful and lasting decision.
Why can't I see the name I assigned to my ship?
Please note that if you log in during the patch that introduces Idris ship names before naming your ship, you may not immediately see the ship name you've assigned. If this is the case, the name will become visible with the next patch. Support staff will be unable to assist with this issue, so we ask that you remain patient until the name appears in a coming patch.
Which variants of the Aegis Idris can be named?
Ship naming will be available for both the Idris-M and Idris-P. Note that upgrade kits are unaffected, and the hull of the Idris-M or Idris-P can be named regardless of any upgrade kit that may be applied.
When will ship naming be available for other ships not listed?
In addition to the Aegis Idris, a selection of other ships became available for naming with our initial introduction of ship naming. These included the Aegis Hammerhead, Aegis Reclaimer, Anvil Carrack, Crusader Mercury Star Runner, Origin 600i, and Origin 890 Jump. We're currently looking into how ship names will apply to additional hulls, so if you'd like to name a ship that isn't currently available for naming, this is something that will be addressed later as this work progresses.
How will you prevent inappropriate names for ships?
We have filters in place to catch inappropriate names and reserve the right to rename a ship should someone circumvent our filters or use a name we consider inappropriate that's not automatically flagged.
Can multiple ships have the same name? What if the name I want isn't available?
The names will be unique per hull. For example, several ships can be named “Belligerent Duck", but only one Idris-M or Idris-P can have this name. An Idris and a Carrack could each be named “Belligerent Duck”, however. If you choose a name that isn't available, you'll need to choose a different name for your ship.
If I miss my assigned wave, will I still be able to name my ship?
Yes! You will still be able to name your ship if you log in after your assigned wave, although the longer you wait, the more people you'll be competing with for your chosen ship name. We recommend choosing your ship name as quickly as possible so you have the best chance at reserving a name before someone else does.
Let us know in the comments below if you have any questions and we will do our best to answer them!
