Happy Pride Month, everyone!
The ’verse is a welcome place for ALL, and we want to celebrate each and every one of you!
Once again, we’re inviting all of you to join us in celebrating the incredible diversity that makes our community shine so bright. This contest is your chance to show us your colors in any creative way that inspires you, whether it’s a stunning in-game screenshot, a handcrafted card, a heartfelt video, tasty baked treats, or even something totally unexpected. Just make it as colorful as possible!
As is tradition for this contest, there won’t be any podium prizes. Instead, we’re simply selecting TEN submissions that truly stand out, and each winner will receive an Aegis Sabre Firebird standalone ship with LTI — a fierce and fiery addition to your hangar.
Feel free to share as many submissions as you like, but please note that group submissions will not be considered, and each participant is eligible to win only one Firebird. There are no limits to your creativity for this contest, and you may use any medium you wish, as long as your creation is Star Citizen-themed!
Post your submission on the Community Hub with the title ’Show Us Your Colors Celebration 2025’ by June 30th at 20:00 UTC for a chance to win one of ten:
- Aegis Sabre Firebird Standalone Ship with LTI (in-game lifetime insurance)
## UPDATE
Hello, colorful Citizens!
We loved your incredibly creative submissions, and there were so many to choose from that it was difficult to select our favorites! From vibrant screenshots to handmade paintings and custom crafts, you showed us that your creativity and talent know no bounds! Now, join us in congratulating our winners:
:medal: @Bleu_Jay_ZA Community Hub submission
:medal: @Lichruler Community Hub submission
:medal: @sharxbyte Community Hub submission
:medal: @bazis Community Hub submission
:medal: @Khepri_Sun Community Hub submission
:medal: @Morfisch107 Community Hub submission
:medal: @Rusty_Venture Community Hub submission
:medal: @Strydir Community Hub submission
:medal: @ClockworkWolf Community Hub submission
:medal: @konq1 Community Hub submission
The winners will receive their prizes in the next few days. From all of us at Cloud Imperium Games, thank you for celebrating Pride Month! :rainbow-flag:
