Stability can be a bit of an abstract concept without taking the time to define it, as the definition can change from one person to the next. The internal definition that we use for what is considered a stability issue is pretty narrow and refers specifically to crashes an disconnections. I'm the one that established both the internal definition for it, as well as the data model that we use for how we measure server and client stability in reference to crashes and disconnections. That data model is then used to aid producers in decision making for if we should be prioritizing fixing crashes and disconnections, or if developers should be focusing on gameplay issues such as what you describe in your question.
Think of it like a car. Stability is how likely it is to flip over and crash. Performance is how well it can accelerate, corner without flipping over and crashing, etc. Usability is how well the driver can interact with the cars various features.
So are things more stable in the year of stability? Yes but that's not really what you were asking about so it doesn't help if I focus on that.
You're concerned about the frustrating experiences that are occurring due to gameplay bugs and performance issues. I can't really comment on the prioritization of the gameplay issues, as that's not the area that I'm in charge of. Performance I can comment on a bit since the team I'm on helps out with that process. Fixes for performance issue are something that is iterative. It takes a lot of slow and steady work over time. We do performance captures for every single PTU build and public environment multiple times to provide our developers with the information they need to investigate implement performance fixes. However, fixing performance issues is much like pealing back layers of an onion. When one performance issue is fixed, the next worst one usually rises up to take its place and limits the efficacy of the fix that went into place. Sometimes getting big performance gains requires new tech or complete rewrites of old systems and there's definitely some of that still going on. But even those new systems are going to have their own iterative performance work that has to happen.
