Your Mileage May Vary of course, since individual refineries have slight variations based on their proficiency  as for how fast they refine certain materials.  But in general, you can expect between 200% to 400% faster refining jobs, with faster refining times on more prevalent resources. (although with some distinction in the same brackets, like Tungsten and Titanium still being slower to refine than Aluminum or Tin for obvious reasons)
Example 1: A fairly slow-to-refine ore like borase at Faithful Dream, even using a fast method like XMR, 96 SCU would take around an hour, While now the Same amount would finish in under 18 minutes.
One of the goals here was: "if a player is going to make the choice to lose 1/3rd of their yield, that choice should mean they get to actually sell that refined ore fast enough to be sellable that same gameplay session, if not before they leave the station"
And frankly, before this change, I at least, didn't feel like the Low Yield refining methods ever felt like a really viable choice.
However, Don't fret if you prefer the high yield methods! You will still see a significant improvement there too! Again, exact numbers might not be the same at different locations,
Example 2: in 4.1 when I refined 200 Aluminum using PMC, the job would take around 24 hours, the same job would take around 6 hours now.
Alright, 3rd Example and something that I think speaks to the goals of this change:
Let's say you are a good miner and have managed to actually get your prospector 100% full of Gold (not really realistic, but it's an example)
that's 32 SCU of Gold to refine:
XCR would be around 10 minutes, "I want to this done by the time I get back from grabbing a Big Bennys"
Electro would be about an hour. "I want this to be sellable before I finish playing the game today"
Dynyx would be finished in a bit over 12 hours. "I want the most value from my mining and I'm ok to come back and sell this next time I play."
All 3 of these mindsets are fine, and should have an option to correspond.
