In the past, people have wondered how many game clients we're going to get into a single instance to this and the answer to this question is going to be "as many as is  realistically possible." In order for any MMO to be successful, they need  to reach a certain ratio of players per computing power in order for  the money spent on the servers to be viable from a business perspective. This isn't something that's going to be unique to Star Citizen.
With regards to how this is done, it's an iterative process. There usually isn't ever a single silver bullet that fixes all of the problems that a game server is having because each layer of problems that prevents increasing the population cap of a server typically hides other issues behind them. What happens is that we'll push the servers as bit beyond where they can comfortable handle things so that we can identify where they are encountering problems. That can be things such as CPU bottle necking, running out of memory, various messaging queues getting clogged, etc. This helps us to get an idea of what needs to be fixed because we can use some debugging tools to gather information on what might be causing the issues we're seeing. Once the problems we had identified are fixed, we push a bit harder to see what new issues appear at higher population levels so that the process begins again.
With regards to your followup question as to how it will work, there's two parts to that. The immediate answer is that we can adjust the server types that we use as needed. The game servers are hosted in the AWS cloud and the different types of virtual machines they have available for use are listed on their website. In the long term, the current plan is to have what we've been calling a server mesh where characters are split up across this mesh and transition from one to another as needed.  Ideally, we'd like the end result to be something along the lines of two capital ships fighting each other to be comprised as a number of instances meshed together where the combatants don't realize that they're on different server instances than the people they're fighting even though they're in the same sector of space. ( https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nvule1cD_zk&feature=youtu.be&t=28m ).
