Howdy,
I can speak some to the logic and plans behind the changes to commodity prices, size availability and ROI/Profit Lines. Most of those numbers are what I focus on in the Econ team. I'm also going to speak on these points to a level that a lot of people's eyes will glaze over and need to watch someone else to summarize it. Sorry. As always, a lot of upcoming content that are in the works for SC will have a big scale affect on the overall goals of trading, sandbox resource gathering, and the economy as a whole. So any specifics I might go into here is only about the current state of balance for trade, not what they will be once other majer features change that landscape, which they absolutely will.
Why does Partillium get another nerf in PTU?
Well, you might not have noticed yet, (that's not a slight on you, I'm well aware of the current state on communicating information about trade goods and more.) We actually clamped down all commodities in terms of the availability sizes this patch, not specifically partillium. What you will find is that aside from a few special exceptions(Osoian hides, atlassium, etc), most commodities will fall into the following "brackets" in terms of availability.  32/24SCU (some outposts can't support 32 SCU crates),  16SCU, 8SCU, and 2SCU.
The value per SCU goes up the lower the bracket.  It's actually intended to be a pain point for ships with excessively large grids to try and fill up with crates that are below their bracket range. We don't outright block them of course. this is a sandbox and going outside the limits is allowed, but a good sandbox does have friction and makes the world respond that way when you try to push the boundaries of the normal flow.
CIG should be boosting ROI across the board on all commodities.
We actually did this in 4.4 too! Although since it's only the first part of a larger increase to sandbox values it won't feel quite as strong in just 4.4. as it will with the rest of the changes coming out. Most tradable resources in 4.4 now have at least some pair of locations that can get you to about a 20% Discount on purchase and a 35% premium on sale in the perfect conditions. (The lower along the value by bracket you go, the more locations there are to give you those good prices and vice versa.) Depending on how you calculate it, that's... "Slightly above a 68%" return on investments. (Take any values with a grain of salt, there's a LOT of layers of dynamic calculation that modulate the end point prices you will actually see in-game, and literally every location has another set of values in place that can either add or subtract to those bands.)
The ROI is 7-16% after the nerf last patch... (best case scenario)
It's actually not, Partillium's locations do have some of those aforementioned modifiers that change the possible best end ROI to a 10% Discount and a 25% Premium. instead of 20/35. But the reason you still aren't seeing that benefit is that it's oversaturated at the locations. The more players focus on a single commodity the worse those places prices get for all players, that's part of the current working effects of the dynamic price changes based on demand. If everyone focuses Partillium for instance, even that reduced potential 33% ROI can drop all the way to 7-8% ROI. This leads us into the reason that Partillium got hit in the prior patch.
So the goal for the way the balance between the "chase" commodities in their bracket is intended to work, is that even if one resource is at first the most profitable: If too many people focus on that resource, it's profit lines drop below the 2nd, then 3rd, then 4th best options. This creates a rolling meta where there should never really just be one single commodity that is inherently the "best choice".  That's healthy for the game, and makes the balance between other traders, and pirates a lot more of a mind game as opposed to just camping the specifically best commodity.
For example, In the 2 SCU bracket, the 2nd best option behind partillium is diamond laminate(~84k).  Before the nerf of partillium from ~190k to ~90k, at 190k, no matter how many players focused on partillium, diamond laminate would never overtake it as the best option, this isn't healthy for the sandbox as a whole, it becomes the only thing worth trading and all the locations you can get partillium become death traps, (which they absolutely were, and still honestly are a bit more than I'd like.) That's the motivation behind why we dropped partillium to a closer value for its bracket.
Just as a little bonus:
Here are some other currently intended "chase" commodities at the top of their brackets: fresh food, tritium and dymantium at 8SCU, Bioplastic, Widow, Diamond and Gold at 16 SCU, and lastly pressurized ice, steel, tungsten and dynaflex at the 24/32SCU bracket. One of the benefits we want to make of having bigger ships, is that you will have enough space to trade these chase goods of higher brackets for a better profit line, which smaller ships don't see similar profit lines for.
Making these brackets a bit easier to quickly identify is one of the reasons we chose to shift many commodities like partillium to 2scu as well.
Ok, so that's the points I want to clarify for why we decided to bring Partillium in line with the rest of the goods. Now lets talk about the parts where you guys are right:
As another commenter said:
Sandbox gameplay even low risk sandbox gameplay should have better payout.
Yep, you are right. Stay tuned for more on this in the next couple patches.  Honestly, I wouldn't have been able to justify any kind of universal buff to sandbox commodities while Partillium was still that much of an outlier.
Now that it's closer in line to the other 2scu chase commodities... whatever buffs and changes will happen on a per-bracket basis and include partillium, instead of treating it as an outlier of that bracket.
If you want to nerf something, nerf these zero risk high reward contracted cargo missions.
I would just very much like to clarify, I don't like... wake up in the morning and say "Y'know what? I'm in a Nerfing mood today, what can I hit?".  I'm really trying not to crack a joke here, but genuinely, it's a pretty elaborate discussion for the team when we bring up a need to nerf something, even when it seems like the data shows it's a good call.
All of this lead's to very boring game play that encourages murder hobos
Yeah. There's some contributing factors from other in progress systems here, but we know that this is an especially harsh factor for people mining, salvaging and trading, since those are currently the most piratable goods, and even those are well below piracy values. (not including player trading market values) to make it feel actually worth it.
