This leaves a specific place for multicrew actually. Because of the existence of "Downtrading."  Remember how I said we don't hardlimit the brackets? We just make it a bit harder to safely and efficiently load up ships with those goods in a timely manner?
Well... If you have some extra people along, then you can overcome that barrier pretty easily.
So sure, it might be a pain for ONE person to load a Cat with 40 8SCU crates, even if you have to grab 2-3 different commodities in that bracket.   It might even be dangerous for a solo player in a cat to do that, it could take them like 20 Minutes!
But, if you have a crew... then you can start venturing into more risky and lower brackets of cargo than you should be safe trading on your own.
And if you have a crew or have hired a guard for instance. You also have a protection against the "Treasure Ship" scenario, which would be if you have loaded up so much high value goods on your ship, that you become the golden lootbox for all pirates in the system. You are much more free to do that if you have guards, and can pay them part of the excess value you are getting from downtrading.
Just also expect that you will be making enemies of all the small ships trying to trade there, because you are a big fish, invading their small pond.
A 1 Crew Cateripillar trying to compete and load up at a small outpost moving a few different 2 SCU bracket goods is going to get obliterated. partially because of how long it takes you to solo load it. But a Full Crew Cat, with maybe 1 or two guards?  Well.... You might be able to do some of that dangerous downtrading, and sure you might need to stop at a few locations to fully load up. But suddenly, a ship of 4-6 crew. Running Low Bracket goods? It's incredibly high risk, but if you are willing to go against the grain for it, it might be worth it.
I honestly, think that these brackets actually make it MORE rewarding, not less for multicrew ships, because the MAIN factor that's making it hard to downtrade is offset by having more people on the ship.
