Howdy, Econ team here, we wanted to go into a bit more detail regarding the reasoning for why we felt the changes we made were possible, healthy and beneficial for the game. I'll answer some expected questions throughout. If you aren't a fan of lots of details... Sorry.
Disclaimer: It’s a sandbox, so almost every “rule” has at least 1 exception. Our systems prefer rubber bands to hard boundaries.
Why the Refining Change for Mining?
While Starter Mining vehicles can carry 32 SCU of ore, Starter Freight Ships do NOT carry 32 SCU of cargo. We want to make it easier with a smaller freight ship to transport the refined ores, while still getting the full value of what you've mined.
It's works better to have smaller volumes of refined ore for some upcoming features.
What are "Brackets"?
Brackets are back-end groupings of commodities which help us reinforce the rarity, volume and supply of resources throughout the ‘Verse. (They don’t have official names for now, so we are still calling each bracket by its crate ). If something is easy to mine in a large volume (like Copper), then locations that have or need Copper should reflect that. Since Gold is rarer and harder to find than Copper, it's in a smaller bracket.
For now, the simplest way to differentiate brackets for traders is by the maximum crate size purchasable. To help, here’s some insight on the brackets:
Max Purchasable Crate Size | Example of a good ship to trade these | Examples of Competitive Goods | Example of Casual Goods
32/24 | Caterpillar (576 SCU) or larger | Steel, Tungsten, Pressurized Ice | Helium, Mercury, Silicon
16 | Starlancer Max (224 SCU) | Gold, Bioplastic | Scrap, Astatine
8 | Cutlass Black (46 SCU) | Dymantium, Fresh Food | Organimass, Iodine
2 |  Clipper (12 SCU) | Diamond-Laminate, Partillium | AV Equipment, Slam
Keep in mind that the commodities within each bracket still have a good deal of variance in how competitive vs casual they are:
- Competitive goods have lower supply, higher demand (Pirate Bait)
- Casual goods have higher supply, lower demand
All goods can still make profits when traded.
What values will I likely see affected differently between resources in different brackets?
Brackets help represent scarcity, value, stock and more. Outside of just prices, smaller brackets will be restocked more slowly and have lower limits to their stocks. Many locations simply won’t be keeping an Olympic swimming pool worth of Atlassium, as it’s a rare material.
What do Brackets mean for Mining, Salvage, and other Resource Gathering Loops?
Honestly, this isn't new for y'all. Miners have been using the bracket system for years, we just took a while to apply those same rules everywhere. Quantanium(2) is more rare than Taranite(8), which is rarer than Hephaestenite (16), which is rarer than Tin (32). That's brackets.
Trading and Brackets
Let’s rip the band aid off. If you are a solo trader, it's intended to have more challenges while trading smaller bracket goods in larger ships. Mostly, it’s just not the optimal use of your space and time.
It’s extra work (especially in dangerous areas) to move a large quantity of smaller crates into your ship, than it would be fewer larger crates. That’s not even considering that you are fighting for a much smaller stock with other traders. In short, it’s more efficient for a ship like the Starlancer Max to be loading up 16 SCU crates, than attempting to fill its grid with 8s or 2s.
Considering prices in the game are constantly dynamically changing based on demand, this makes the difference between commodities on the ends of different brackets cleaner. This means that players who know what bracket they want to focus on have more actionable information.
Is there still a point to getting bigger hauling ships?
Absolutely there is.
A Caterpillar full of Pressurized Ice(32) has the ability to make around 20% more per trip than a Starlancer Max full of bioplastic(16). This, in turn, is about 20% more than a Cutlass black full of Fresh Food(8), and so on.
No matter how efficiently you trade, there’s a cap on how much you can make trading  8s in the appropriate size ship. If you jump from 8 to 16, you will make more profit running 16s in ships appropriate to that size.
What about Multi-Crew?
We “restrict” brackets by making it more dangerous and slower to trade at a smaller bracket the bigger your ship is. Those restrictions can be mitigated by simply having a bigger crew. If you have enough people to load a Starlancer Max with bracket 2 goods efficiently, go for it! Of course, you might need to get a variety of bracket 2 goods depending on how much the location supplies. Your ship will also end up have a lot of value concentrated in one point…
What do you mean about closer values in a bracket being better for dynamic pricing?
Prices most shops are currently "semi-dynamic" (You should definitely read the trade tutorial in the journal in game.) For instance if a location offers or requests Gold at a Discount of 10% or a Premium of 10%. Those premiums and discounts trends towards 0 the more players buy or sell it there. (server hopping will not change that) That's in the game and it's already affecting all your profits if you are a trader.   So if the "BEST" bracket 8 commodity to sell is valued at a 25% premium at lets say 1000 aUEC, and the Second best option is offered at 25% premium with a base of 975: Then as soon as enough players have reduced that premium by 10% then it's actually no longer the "best" option. This means that whatever the most players are buying and selling, will usually be not the best thing to trade and sell.  This creates a meta in the trading loop of trying to  outplay the other traders.
There have been large exploits, why are we now getting even more ways of making more money? Isn't the timing here a bit bad?
Yes. The exploits from the last 2 patches have been rough for the game and the economy. As a result, a full wipe is likely at some point down the line.
Let's speak about the abundance of earnings you are getting currently. If you feel like you are gaining more aUEC than you can spend, that’s intentional. When we look to add the badly needed sinks and cost decisions later next year, those new costs will be balanced against the current aUEC earning. That said, we want feedback and analytics on those numbers as they are now, so that we can correctly implement those sinks.
For now, you might find that your aUEC earnings are much higher than your expenses necessitate, but rest assured that the values will start making sense down the line.
