Hello everyone!
Every two weeks, we accompany the Roadmap update with a brief explanatory note to give you insight into the decision-making that led to any changes. This is part of an effort to make our communications more transparent, more specific, and more insightful for all of you who help to make Star Citizen and Squadron 42 possible.
Just a reminder: The 1.0 column showcases features and content planned for inclusion in or before Star Citizen 1.0. This means you may not have to wait for the 1.0 release to experience them. As features/content in the 1.0 column become ready, they will migrate left into a point patch column for release.
Be sure to check back every two weeks for the latest updates.
With that, let’s dive into this week’s Roadmap Roundup!
-CIG Community Team
## Release View
4.6.0
Cockpit Light Amplification (LAMP)
Implementing light amplification on the canopies of a limited set of vehicles, allowing players to more easily navigate the 'verse in low-light conditions, with more ships to be supported in the future.
:scroll: This card has been set to Tentative.
Clearing The Air
Implementing a system wide crisis on Levski built around the Molina Mold outbreak, sending players across Nyx and Stanton on Hauling, Courier, Resource Gathering, Kill Ship, Recover Cargo, Station Escort, and Defend Ship missions.
:scroll: This card has been set to Tentative.
New Resource Gathering Missions
Implementing an expanded list of missions to our Resource Gathering archetype. Find, gather and deliver raw or refined mineable ores or salvageable ship pieces for a variety of corporations.
:scroll: This card has been set to Tentative.
Kel-To Ship Supply Kiosks
Implementing small, Kel-To owned ship supply kiosks at major cities in Stanton, giving crews quick access to engineering tools and essential provisions.
:scroll: This card has been set to Tentative.
FPS Weapons Art Refactor
Updating visual material and texture for the following weapons and equipments: Behring P4-AR, FS-9, and P6-LR; Greycat MaxLift Tractor Beam and Cambio SRT; CureLife ParaMed Medical Device; and Ripper SMG.
:scroll: This card has been set to Tentative.
