Greetings denizens of the Banu Merchantman Owner´s Club.
I have been hearing rumblings of discord after recent moderation activity on this forum, and thought I would offer a direct response to highlight the concerns raised.
First, let me begin with expressing my interest in this ship.  The Banu Merchantman was the third ship I pledged for and has been in my hangar patiently awaiting construction for many years now. I have long speculated and anticipated how this ship would permit a viable means to generate credits for the Org I am in, and venturing out into space aboard this enigmatic vessel with a tight-knit crew, out to make a mutual profit, and meeting people around the verse.
So believe me when I say that I know the culture the surrounds this ship, and the hopes it inspires within the community.
It is also important to make clear that moderation is not the enemy, nor a bane to the community as a whole. It is indeed a challenging position in maintaining that fragile and content middle ground. That said, the actions are taken specifically, which I agree were perhaps seemingly blunt, were done as part of basic housekeeping. There is nothing wrong with the community building what they have, and honestly, that is something I am all for encouraging.
However, there is a pattern that can rapidly escalate if left unattended, and that is dilution. Mods perform basic housekeeping on forums, which does indeed involve ensuring a thread remains on topic and does not derail too much from it's intended purpose. This keeps the forums coherent for others browsing them and ensuring that they are going to the right area, to discuss the topics they are seeing.
Unrelated gifs. banter or content simply dilutes the thread, and begins a standard that others will follow, until the forum becomes intangible, as observed on a number of occasions in our experience over the years. As such, the action taken was keeping things trim, and preventing others following the example of adding to unrelated content.
Having read this thread in detail (which took quite sometime) there have been conversations which are completely unrelated to the topic at hand. Specifically, ranging from the Carrack, to the Pioneer and it's armament.
Other topics are welcome of course, but moderation strives to keep things cohesive and properly organized in a way that makes the forums easier to recognize and in turn being able to navigate with clarity. While I appreciate this community see's this thread as it's own little corner, it is not grounds to disregard the rules, and forum conduct completely.
Therefore, I respectfully request that the thread remain on topic, and contributing to the Banu Merchantman. If you feel this topic is exhausted, then start another one elsewhere.
The goal is to keep threads consistent and focused on what they were intended. Not turn a thread into a micro verse of "General chat 2.0"
There was nothing malicious involved in this case as I am sure you know, but I will be taking your feedback into consideration and communicating it moving forward.
In the meantime, please respect the forum rules and standard of conduct we have.
Thank you.
All the best,
Kraiklyn
Lead Moderator | RSI Player Relations
Cloud Imperium Games
