UPDATE 2:
Work begins! Locking this thread, thanks to everyone who replied, I read and noted every reply and it's gratifying to know that much of what you guys are after, we're after too. Sorry to everyone who had feedback for maps or shopping or anything else but this was just for the Equipment loadouts this time.
UPDATE:
phew I spent all of monday reading every reply, noting what people liked and disliked and have a thoroughly comprehensive list to work from. Thanks for all your feedback, I'll keep checking back this week to see if any new points get raised but this is all great stuff.
ORIGINAL POST:
Hey Gang!
Hopefully you're all having fun with 3.0 and have 'thoughts', 'feelings' and 'hot takes' on how it plays.
We've got our own roadmaps on how we want features to progress but if people have any standout issues with some parts of the game that don't work for them,  or have some parts they find quite useful, I'd love to be able to factor those in while we iterate on some of the 'first implementation' work we've got in 3.0. I'm not talking Bugs and Performance issues but actually getting into the design of the thing, the 'experiential' side of the game.
To that in I'm hitting you guys up for your thoughts, feelings and hot takes on how the Equipment Manager in the mobiGlas is working out for you. What are we doing well, what are we doing poorly and what are we missing that would improve the experience. This is both for the player loadout and ship loadout, what are your impressions of how you've used it so far? If you have anything to share, good or bad about what you like or dislike about the mobiglas apps drop a reply in here and I'll do some collating and we'll go from there. Obviously we have our own internal thoughts about where we want to take the feature after 3.0 we want to make sure that we have heard from you, too.
As is usually the case for interface design; if you don't notice it, it's done its job, so I expect to hear about the things that aren't doing their job more than about the stuff that is working but if there's any part of the app you find  worked for you, let me know too :wink:
Also; i hope it goes without saying that we can't please all the people all of the time, so this will be a 'taking the temperature' kind of thread rather than any commitment. I want to make sure we've heard from all sides and maybe even raise issues we've not considered internally. Also; a mention in this thread != confirmed change, this is just so I have a better understanding of how the community is using the apps because I don't doubt there will be contradictory feedback from people who want different things.
That said, please let me know what you think and we'll hopefully be able to work together, dev and community, in making the feature stronger.
Cheers and have a good weekend.
-Will
