Happy Pride Month, y'all!
The 'verse is a welcome place for ALL, and we want to celebrate each and every one of you.
Once again, we’re inviting all of you to join us in celebrating the incredible diversity that makes our community shine so bright. This contest is your chance to show us your colors in any creative way that inspires you, whether it’s a stunning in-game screenshot, a handcrafted card, a heartfelt video, tasty baked treats, or even something totally unexpected. Just make it as colorful as possible!
As is tradition for this contest, there won't be any podium prizes. Instead, we're simply selecting TEN submissions that truly stand out, and each winner will receive an RSI Aurora Mk II plus Modules with LTI, a vibrant addition to your hangar.
Feel free to share as many submissions as you like, but please note that group submissions will not be considered, and each participant is eligible to win only one Aurora. Your submission just needs to be Star Citizen-themed!
Post your submission on the Community Hub with the title 'Show Us Your Colors Celebration 2026' by June 30th at 20:00 UTC for a chance to win one of ten:
- RSI Aurora Mk II plus Modules with LTI
Be sure to check out the Contest Rules before submitting.
UPDATE
Hey y'all colorful Citizens!
We loved your incredibly creative submissions, and there were so many to choose from that it was difficult to select our favorites! From vibrant screenshots to handmade paintings and custom crafts, you showed us that your creativity and talent know no bounds! Now, join us in congratulating our winners:
:medal: @0BastAV0 Community Hub submission
:medal: @Khepri_Sun Community Hub submission
:medal: @Smoke_Hermit Community Hub submission
:medal: @Ensembled Community Hub submission
:medal: @Sebaldus Community Hub submission
:medal: @Kattgoddes Community Hub submission
:medal: @Lichruler Community Hub submission
:medal: @Caitsune Community Hub submission
:medal: @GreyWenti Community Hub submission
:medal: @Wintermane Community Hub submission
The winners will receive their prizes in the next few days. From all of us at Cloud Imperium Games, thank you for celebrating Pride Month! :rainbow-flag:
