Hey y'all!
The Ship Showdown Phase 1 contest is in the books, and from all of the incredible entries, 16 participants have emerged from the Vesselmania gauntlet as your favorites. Now the real battle to be champion begins in Phase 2: The Live Showdown!
For each matchup, two ships enter, one ship leaves — and only you can decide the outcome of who moves on to the Elite Eight, with one ship or vehicle ultimately carving a path to be crowned this year's champion. Choose wisely, as in celebration of their victories, your Elite Eight will be available for a Free Fly for players starting August 26! Please note that due to its performance impact, the Idris will not be part of the Free Fly should it advance to the Elite Eight.
## Phase 2: Head-to-Head Matches
August 18: :package: Freighter Division (Transport) - Drake Ironclad Assault vs. RSI Hermes
August 19: :blue_car: Road Warrior (Ground Vehicles) - Greycat UTV vs. Greycat MTC
August 20: :compass: Pathfinder (Exploration) - Drake Corsair vs. Anvil Carrack
August 21: :footprints: Underdog (The Little Ones) - Drake Clipper vs. RSI Aurora Mk II
August 22: :gear: Heavy Duty (Industrial) - Argo MOLE vs. Aegis Reclaimer
August 23: :gun: Run & Gun (Combat) - Origin M80 vs. Grey's Market Shiv
August 24: :alien: Eclectic Exotic (Alien) - Gatac Railen vs. Esperia Prowler Utility
August 25: :boom: Big Hitters (Warships) - RSI Perseus vs. Aegis Idris-P
Since the Idris-P made it all the way to the Top 16, we're making a limited number available during its head-to-head match starting on August 25. Stock will drop across six waves to cover as many global time zones as possible
Wave 1: August 25 - 1600 UTC
Wave 2: August 25 - 2000 UTC
Wave 3: August 26 - 0000 UTC
Wave 4: August 26 - 0400 UTC
Wave 5: August 26 - 0800 UTC
Wave 6: August 26 - 1200 UTC
Don't forget, if you vote during every head-to-head matchup in Phase 2, you'll walk away with a commemorative Ship Showdown 2956 Spectrum badge in your account.
Will your favorite contender fight on, or be reduced to scrap? You decide. Keep in mind that players who own any of the Final Four competitors as of Intergalactic Aerospace Expo later this year will also receive Best in Show paints, manufacturer-themed coins, and a coin case, with a manufacturer-themed bomber jacket going to backers of the ultimate champ.
So strap in, rev up, and cast your votes every day until phase 2 ends, to ensure your favorite makes it all the way to the win!
