Howdy. I worked on this. I do most of the sandbox commodity prices, trade routes, etc.
First off, I'm glad you like the new route. I've been working on getting momentum to try something like this for a while.
Ever since the Osoian hide route went pretty well.
I've been "stalking" Ashland in-game for a few days now, you may or may not have killed me, stolen my Elespo, had your stuff stolen by me, or hit me with a railgun. (I'm usually in a Titan or a Zues.)  I am proud to say, I have lost much more UEC than I gained since the patch dropped, and I regret nothing.
I always prefer communicating more with y'all about the reasoning and goals behind what we do. So lets do that:
CIG I implore you to continue to add commodities around the various POIs of Pyro that have ROI’s high enough to draw players there.
This unfortunately isn't a "infinite good content" faucet. Routes like this hit diminishing returns pretty fast. I want these locations to be a hotbed of danger and death. That's an intentional design goal. I want somewhere that players who log into the game and feel like they are hungry to shoot someone down can go reliably and find others who knowingly are willing to risk that.  Not only because that gives them the gameplay they desire, but because it keeps more of them out of the low profit routing lanes.  Player-bases aren't exactly zero-sum, but they aren't that far away from it either, the more predators at the watering hole, the more prey that aren't at the watering hole can feel safer.
If we add too many of these high ROI options, then that concentration wanes, and part of the risk that makes it work in the sandbox balance to allow such high ROI falls off.
We can definitely add some more in the future, but the main element that we'd need to add first, is a better way in-game for traders and pirates both to discover the current prices, and how much they have shifted via supply and demand. (on this note, I agree with @TheTechnobear)
In specific, I'd really like to add an interstellar route that only sells 24 SCU crates exclusively, so we can push for more large ship sandbox gameplay to happen around there.
(As always, a reminder to everyone, I don't speak for the whole company, please don't snip my comments out of context and post them on reddit. At the very least, get them in-context this time.)
