Yes we have thought about it and we have a few fun ways we want to tackle insurance scams like this. As insurance is still in-development I can't say what we're settling on, but to give you an idea regarding where our heads at, here's what we're thinking currently.
Self destruct is a bit too powerful
We talked about self destruct but we are also dealing with the very real situation of shipjackers and pirates that I don't want to unbalance. If its a legit theft and your crew stormed aboard a cargo ship, stole it and were heading for port with all of that cargo, I don't want to super-empower the victim by being able to simply make a claim and the stolen ship self destructs, I'd prefer it if we could let things develop more organically.
When you claim on a ship, the ORIGINAL ship becomes the property of the insurance company.
One exciting direction we can take this is to have the game police these problems as much as we can. If we treat the claimed upon ship as now belonging to the Insurance Company we can use the same enforcement system as we would for shipjackers in general. So law enforcers will be hostile to that ship, lots of legal ports will treat the ship worse etc.
It also means we have the ability to trigger missions based on it. This isn't something we have currently but the dynamic mission system could use the original ship as the target of a salvage or recovery mission.
Insurance Companies could sell the salvage rights to a ship to a salvage crew who can then strip that ship for parts. if your friend is flying it, they could be collateral damage.
When you claim on a ship, the ORIGINAL ship is no longer needed by the server.
Another direction you called out is that we don't need to continue to care about claimed upon ships. They are assumed abandoned and therefore because of server loads we clean them up at the end of the session. So in the example given, players will spend a few hours claiming on ships so 20 friends have good ships but then they lose any progress once they log out.
When you claim on a ship, the ORIGINAL ship does not become the property of your friend.
Another limitation is that your friend is very limited by how much they can use their ill-gotten ship. Fleet Manager terminals at space stations can only summon the ships in a player's collection, so if they were to land at Port Olisar in a ship belonging to the Insurance company, they can land and the ship will enter the hangar but they will not be able to retrieve it because it is not their property.
While there are obvious get-arounds to this, it limits the uses of a ship claimed through insurance fraud to having to stay outside and mobile (which leaves them exposed for law enforcers/reclamation teams/others to track them down and deal with the thieves).
Hit their wallet, make claiming cost more.
Another slightly manageable system we will be employing is simply that repeat claims from the same account mean that the cost of subsequent claims will increase because you are a higher risk. There are ways around this if 10 of your friends all claim once, or 5 of your friends claim 3x then all 20 of you have ships with a reduced overall fee change than 1 player claiming 19x but it all adds up financially. Additionally we want to introduce more systems in the code that will scale costs and potentially even risk disqualifying players from their insurance policy if they claim too many times or if they are repeatedly claiming under 'suspicious circumstances' etc. How we'd do that is still up in the air and probably exploitable too, but its an avenue we are thinking about if we still feel the need to police this system if its repeatedly exploited.
Again, the future of insurance is still VERY MUCH in development, but I just wanted to reassure you that we are actively thinking about these kind of exploits and we want to make sure that the opportunity to do that is as small as possible. We can't build a PERFECT system, obviously and I'd rather not introduce lots of tight measures up front but be more 'reactive' to the community rather than make it too strict up-front and penalise people for just playing a way we hadn't predicted.
