I'd like to add one more thing to the info on ships taking "breaks" from active development:
As a normal part of ship development, there are periods of time when a vehicle is being worked on and those that it is not. This can often times be due to the availability of a variety of team resources. In an overly simplified example I think will help illustrate, let's use a fake ship as an example.
We'll call it the SUPERFLY.
The SUPERFLY has now entered Greybox Phase, where a number of developers or teams will work on it, sometimes simultaneously, but sometimes in succession if the particular needs mandate it. In our overly simplified example:
Resource A works on Greybox Modeling.
Resource B works on Greybox Surfacing.
Resource C works on Greybox Animation.
Resource D works on Greybox UI.
Resource E works on Greybox Tech Art.
Resource C will work on this same stage for a number of different ships. If Resource C finishes Greybox Animation on Ship 1, they'll move onto Greybox Animation for Ship 2, then Greybox Animation for Ship 3, and so forth, and so forth.
For the SUPERFLY ship, Resource C has finished his work on the DANGERMOUSE ship and is ready to begin work on another ship. Resource C is scheduled to work on the SUPERFLY ship next, but Resource B's work on the Greybox Surfacing is not yet complete, and for this particular ship that's deemed necessary before Resource C can begin his Animation work. After a period of evaluation, it is determined that in order to remain as efficient as possible, Resource C will move onto the GARGAMEL ship next, which is awaiting Greybox Animation work.
Some time later, when Resource B completes the work on Greybox Surfacing for the SUPERFLY, they will move onto another ship, and because Resource C is sill working on the GARGAMEL, the SUPERFLY now goes into a period of holding, or "waiting for resources."
This period can be days, weeks, or even months depending on the other needs. Some ships take longer than others to "get right." It's a creative endeavor, to be certain. In this example, when Resource C finishes their work on the GARGAMEL, they may pick up work on the SUPERFLY again.
This is a normal part of ship development, and why sometimes there just aren't any updates to give since the last time you heard about a ship. Some of you may want to ascertain specific meaning to this in relation to other distinct ships that are "waiting for resources" at the moment, but there's a reason I used made up names and didn't refer to any particular example. I'm not telling the story of any one ship. I'm giving you an illustration of the kinds of things that can cause any ship to go from "active development" to "waiting for resources."
Obviously, the reality of all this for any unique ship is often far more complex than the abridged representation given, with a variety of factors that can lead to any re-prioritization of schedules, but I hope this "overly simplified" example helps to illustrate why ships moving into and out of active development is a normal occurrence that can result in periods of time with little or no information to add to the conversation.
