Hi again @shepheard
As I understand their latency claim it only applies when comparing Hashgraph to other distributed ledger algorithms. Specifically their claim seems to be targeted against proof-of-work approaches such as Blockchain. At the end of the day though Hashgraph has to use the same internet as everyone else so is subject to the same network latency. The point I was trying to make is that Hashgraph has to go through several rounds of communication before it will reach concensus. Each round adds an extra bit of latency as those messages also need to be sent over the network. The gossip protocol they've adopted actually makes this worse than it needs to be. To reach concensus at least 2/3 of hosts need to be in agreement, so we'd have to wait at least until that many hosts have heard about the action we're trying to perform. For a network of 100k hosts, and each host gossiping to only 2 others, a message needs to have passed through at least 15 layers of gossiping before it will have reached the critical 2/3 of hosts. That's a lot of extra latency to add.
The fairness in Hashgraph relies squarely on the gossip being spread to hosts that are selected purely at random. That means every host needs to be able to communicate with every other host. Setting up connections takes time. For certain applications the cost of setting up connections on-demand may not be a big deal but for realtime gaming it's not a viable option. The alternative is to setup all connections beforehand. However maintaining a connection takes a small amount of bandwidth and CPU resources. For a lot connections all those little nibbles can still add up to a great big bite. So this isn't viable for us either. Any attempt to optimize the problem by biasing gossiping to choose from only a sub-set of hosts or based on ping, would undermine the algorithm's fairness, and that could open the door to cheating.
Regarding their 250k per second transaction claim: Without context it is hard to make useful comparisons. For example; how many hosts were involved, what hardware they were running on, what the nature of the transactions were, and what other processing the hosts were performing. In my opinion this is another claim aimed directly at Hashgraph's proof-of-work rivals: it has been well-documented that these have so far been unable to handle anything like this volume.
For your final question about our server meshing idea and how entities on different servers can interact, we'll address this by trying to ensure that authority over interacting entities will reside on the same server. When we can't immediately make that happen we will fallback on the same techniques used in peer-to-peer networked games.
